
-^ 



b* 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/thoughtsonnecess1824clar 



THOUGHTS 

ON THE 

&ztmity of % mproWttg t!)e Condition 

OF 

THE SLAVES 

IN THE BRITISH COLONIES, 

WITH A VIEW TO THEIR ULTIMATE 

EMANCIPATION; 

AND ON THE PRACTICABILITY, THE SAFETY, AND THE 
ADVANTAGES OF THE LATTER MEASURE. 



By T. CLARKSON, Esq, 



Fourth Edition corrected. 



lontion: 

RKINTItf) FOR THE SOCIETY FOB THE MITIGATION AND GRADUAL 

ABOLITION OF SLAVERY THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH DOMINIONS; 

AND SOLD BY 

J. HATCHARD AND SON/ PICCADILLY ; AND J. AND A. ARCH, CORNHILL. 

1824. 



IV PREFACE. 

West Indian Slaves, it is only because they have been, and continue to he, de- 
prived of it by force. And here let us consider for a moment which of these two 
different sorts of property is of the greatest value. Let us suppose an English 
gentleman to be seized by ruffians on the banks of the Thames (and why 
not a gentleman when African princes have been so served ?) and hurried away 
to a land (and Algiers is such a land for instance), where white persons are 
held as Slaves. Now this gentleman has not been used to severe labour 
(neither has the African in his own country) ; and being therefore unable, 
though he does his best, to please his master, he is roused to further exertion 
by the whip. Perhaps he takes this treatment indignantly. This only secures 
him a severer punishment. I say nothing of his being badly fed, or lodged, or 
clothed. If he should have a wife and daughters with him, how much more 
cruel would be his fate ! to see the tender skins of these lacerated by the 
whip! to see them torn from him, with a knowledge, that they are going to 
be compelled to submit to the lust of an overseer ! and no redress ! " How long," 
says he, " is this frightful system which tears my body in pieces and excruciates 
my soul, which kills me by inches, and which involves my family in unspeak- 
able misery and unmerited disgrace, to continue ?" — " For ever,'' replies a voice 
suddenly : "for ever, as relates to your own life, and the life of your wife and 
daughters, and that of all their posterity." Now would not this gentleman 
give all that he had left behind him in England, and all that he had in the world 
besides, and all that he had in prospect and expectancy, to get out of this wretched 
state, though he foresaw that on his return to his own country he would be 
obliged to beg his bread for the remainder of his life? I am sure he would. 
I am sure he would instantly prefer his liberty to his gold. There would not 
be the hesitation of a moment as to the choice he would make. I hope then, that 
if the argument of property should be urged on one side of the question, the 
urgument of property {liberty) will not be overlooked on tfie other, but that they 
will be fairly weighed, the one against the other, and that an allowance will 
be made as the scale shall preponderate on either side. 



THOUGHTS, 



J. KNOW of no object, which humanity and justice, as well ass 
public- and private interest, are more intimately united to promote, 
than that of the mitigation of the slavery of the Negroes in oUr 
Colonies, with a view to their final emancipation. This object 
was taken into consideration when the Abolition of the slave trade 
was first practically thought of, and by the very persons who first 
publicly embarked in that cause in England; but it Was at that 
time postponed, not on the ground that Slavery was less cruel, or 
wicked, or impolitic, than the slave trade-, but for other reasons. 
It was supposed, that, by effecting the abolition of the slave trade, 
the .axe would be laid to the root of the whole evil :■ — for what 
was more reasonable than to suppose, that, when masters-could 
no longer obtain Slaves from Africa or elsewhere, they Would be 
compelled, by a sort of inevitable necessity, or a fear of conse- 
quences, or by a sense of their own interest, to take better care of 
those whom they might then have in their possession P What was 
more reasonable, than to suppose that the different local legisla- 
tures, moved by the same considerations, would immediately inter- 
fere, without even the loss of a day, and so alter and amend the 
laws relative to the treatment of Slaves, as to enforce that as a 
public duty, which it would be thus the private interest of indi- 
viduals to perform ? Was it not also reasonable to suppose that 
a system of better treatment, thus begun by individuals, and en- 
forced by law, would produce more willing as well as more able 
and valuable labourers than before ; and that this effect, when 
once visible, would again lead both masters and legislators, on 
the score of interest, to treat their slaves still more like men; 
nav, at length to give them even privileges; and thus to elevate 
their condition by degrees, till at length it would be no difficult 
task, and no mighty transition, to raise them to that most advan- 
tageous situation to both parties, the rank of Free Men ? 

k These 



These where the effects, which the simple measure of the abo- 
lition of the slave trade was expected to produce by those who 
first espoused it, by Mr. Granville Sharp, and those who formed 
the London committee ; and Mr. Pitt, Mr. Fox, Mr. Burke, 
Mr. Wilberforce, and others of illustrious name, who brought the 
subject before Parliament. The question then is, how have these 
fond expectations been realized? or how many and which of these 
desirable effects have been produced ? I may answer, that in our 
own West Indies, since the abolition of the slave trade, there may 
have been a somewhat letter individual treatment of the slaves 
than before ; that, independently of the common progress of hu- 
manity and liberal opinion, the circumstance of not being able to 
get new slaves as formerly, may have had its influence upon some 
of our planters; that it may have made some of them think more; 
that it may have put some of them more upon their guard ; and 
that there may be therefore, upon the whole, more instances of good 
treatment of slaves by individuals in our Islands (though far from 
being as numerous as they ought to be) than at any former period. 

But, alas ! though the abolition of the slave trade may have pro- 
duced a somewhat better individual treatment of the slaves, and 
this also to a somewhat greater extent than formerly, not one of 
the other effects, so anxiously looked for, has been realized. The 
condition of the slaves has not yet been materially improved by 
law. It is a remarkable, and indeed an almost incredible fact, that 
efforts have not been made by the legislative bodies in our Islands 
with the real intention of meeting the new and extraordinary event 
of the abolition of the slave trade. While indeed this measure was 
under discussion by the British Parliament, an attempt was made 
in several of our Islands to alter the old laws, with a view, as it was 
alleged, of providing better for the wants, and of more fully securing 
the personal protection, of the slaves ; but it was afterwards dis- 
covered, that the promoters of this alteration never meant to carry it 
into effect, but intended, by making a show of these laws, to deceive 
the people of England, and thus to prevent t hem from following up 
the great question of the abolition. Mr. Clappeson, one of the evi- 
dences examined by the House of Commons, was in Jamaica when 
the Assembly passed their famous consolidated laws ; and he told 
the House, that " he had often heard from people there, that it was 
passed because of the stir in England about the slave trade ;" and 
he added, " that slaves continued to be as ill treated there since the 
passing of that act as before." Mr. Cook, another of the evidences 
examined, was long resident in the same island; and, " though he 
lived there also since the passing of the Act, he knew of no legal pro- 
tection which slaves had against injuries from their masters." Mr. 
Dalrymple was examined to the same point for Grenada. He was 

there 



there in 1/8 8, when the Act for that island was passed also, called 
•j An Act for the hetter Protection and promoting the Increase and 
Population of Slaves." He told the House, that, " while he resided 
there, the proposal in the British Parliament for the abolition of 
the slave trade was a matter of general discussion, and that he be- 
lieved, that this was the principal reason for passing it. He was of 
opinion, however, that this Act would prove ineffectual, because, 
as Negro evidence was not to be admitted, those, who chose to 
abuse their slaves, might still do it with impunity : and people 
who lived on terms of intimacy, would dislike the idea of becoming 
spies and informers against each other." We have the same ac- 
count of the ameliorating Act of Dominica. " This Act/' says Go- 
vernor Prevost, " appears to have been considered from the day it 
was passed until this hour (viz. from 1797 to 1804) as a political 
measure to avert the interference of the mother country in the 
management of the slaves." We are informed also on the same 
authority, that the clauses of this Act, which had given a promise 
of better days, " had leen wholly neglected." In short, the Acts 
passed in our different Islands for the alleged purpose of bettering 
the condition of the slaves have been shamefully neglected ; and 
they are as much a nullity as if they had never existed. 

And as our planters have done nothing yet effectively by law for 
ameliorating the condition of their slaves, so they have done no- 
thing, or worse than nothing, with a view to their emancipation. 
Indeed it is plain they never thought of taking a single step with 
that view; for emancipation implies a preparation of the persons 
who are to be the subjects of so great a change. It implies a 
previous alteration of treatment for the better, and a previous 
alteration of customs and even of circumstances, no one of which 
can however be really and truly effected without a previous change 
of the laws. In fact, a progressively better treatment by law must,, 
have been settled as a preparatory and absolutely necessary work, 
had emancipation leen intended. But as we have never heard Of 
the introduction of any new laws, with a view of producing this 
effect, in any of our colonies, we have an evidence, almost as clear 
as the sun at noon-day, that our planters have entertained no 
notion of altering the condition of their Negroes, though fifteen 
years have elapsed since the abolition of the slave trade. 

But if the abolition of the slave trade has not produced the 
effects which the abolitionists anticipated, it would appear to be 
their duty to resume their labours : for even if there should be 
upon the whole a somewhat better treatment of the slaves by 
their masters individually, yet it is true, that not only many of the 
former continue to be ill-treated by the latter, but that all may be 
so ill-treat-ed } if the latter be so disposed. . They may be ill-fed, 

B 2 hard,, 



4 

hard- worked, ill-used, and wantonly and barbarously punished. 
They may be tortured, nay even deliberately and intentionally 
murdered, without the means of redress, and with the impunity 
of the criminal, so long as the evidence of a Negro is not admitted 
against a white man. If a white master only take care, that no 
other white man sees him commit such an atrocity, he is safe from 
the cognizance of the law. He may commit it in the sight of a 
thousand black spectators, and no harm will happen to him. In 
fact, from this system respecting their evidence, the slaves in our 
Islands have no more real protection or redress from law, than when 
the Abolitionists first took up the question of the slave trade. It 
is evident therefore, that the latter have still one-half of their work 
to perform, and that it is their duty to perform it. If they were 
ever influenced by any good motives, whether of humanity, justice, 
or religion, to undertake the cause of the Negroes, they must even 
now be influenced by the same motives to continue it. If any of 
those disorders still exist, which it was their intention to cure, 
they cannot (if these are curable) retire from their task and say — 
There is now no further need of our interference. 

The first step then to be taken by the Abolitionists is to attempt 
to introduce an entire new code of laws into our colonies. The 
treatment of the Negroes there must no longer be left to depend 
upon the presumed effects of the abolition of the slave trade. In- 
deed there were persons well acquainted with Colonial concerns, 
who called the abolition but a half-measure at the time when it 
was first publicly talked of. They were sure, that it would never 
of itself answer the end proposed. Mr. Steele also confessed in 
his letter to Dr. Dickson * (of both whom more by and by), that 
" the abolition of the slave trade would he useless, unless at the 
same time the infamous laws, which he had pointed out, were re- 
pealed." Neither must the treatment of the Negroes be made to 
depend upon what may be called contingent humanity. We now 
leave in this country neither the horse, nor the ass, nor oxen, nor 
sheep to the contingent humanity even of Britishlosoms ; — and shall 
we leave those, whom we have proved to be men, to the contingent 
humanity of persons whose eyes are familiarized with cruel sights, 
and who have witnessed the constant exposure of these poor crea- 
tures to oppression without the possibility of redress ? No. The 
treatment of the Negroes must be made to depend upon law ; and 
unless this be done, we shall look in vain for any real amelioration 
of their condition. In the first place, all those old laws which are 
repugnant to humanity and justice, must be done away. There must 
also be new laws, positive, certain, easy of execution, binding upon 

* See Dickson'& Mitigation of Slavery, p. 17. 

all, 



tt\L by means of which the Negroes in our islands shall have speedy 
and substantial redress in real cases of ill usage, whether by star- 
vation, over-work, or acts of personal violence, or otherwise. 
There must be new laws again more akin to the principle of re- 
ivard than of punishment , of privilege than of privation, and which 
shall have a tendency to raise or elevate their condition, so as to 
fit them by degrees to sustain the rank of free men. 

But if a new code of laws be indispensably necessary jn our 
colonies in order to secure a better treatment to the slav es, to 
whom must we look for it ? I answer, that we must not look for 
it to the West Indian Legislatures. For, in the first place, judging 
of what they are likely to do from what they have already done, or 
rather from what they have not done, we can have no reasonable 
expectation from that quarter. One hundred and fifty years have 
passed, during which long interval their laws have been without 
any material improvement. In the second place, the individuals 
composing these Legislatures, having been used to the exercise 
of unlimited power, would be unwilling to part with that portion 
of it, which would be necessary to secure the object in view. In 
the third place, their prejudices against their slaves are too great 
to allow them to become either impartial or willing actors in the 
case. The West Indian master looks down upon his slave 
with disdain. He has besides a certain antipathy against him. 
He hates the sight of his features, and of his colour ; nay, he 
marks with distinctive opprobrium the very blood in his veins, 
attaching different names and more or less infamy to those who 
have it in them, according to the quantity which they have of it in 
consequence of their pedigree, or of their greater or less degree of 
consanguinity with the Whites. Hence the West Indian feels an 
unwillingness to elevate the condition of the Negro, or to do any 
thing for him as a human being. I have no doubt, that this prejudice 
has been one of the great causes why the improvement of onr slave 
population by law has been so long retarded, and that the same 
prejudice will continue to have a similar operation, so long as it 
shall continue to exist. Not that there are wanting men of hu- 
manity among our West Indian legislators. Their humanity is 
discernible enough when it is to be applied to the Whites ; but 
such is the system of slavery, and the degradation attached to this 
system, that their humanity seems to be lost or gone, when it is to 
be applied to the Blacks. Not, again, that there are wanting men 
of sense among the same body. They are shrewd and clever 
enough in the affairs of life, where they maintain an intercourse 
with the Whites ; but in their intercourse with the Blacks, their " 
sense appears to be shrivelled and not of its ordinary size. Look 

at 



.6 

at the laws of their own making, as far as the Negroes are con- 
cerned, and they are a collection of any thing but — wisdom. 

It appears then, that if a new code of laws is indispensably ne- 
cessary in our Colonies in order to secure a better treatment of the 
slaves there, we are not to look to the West Indian Legislatures 
for it. To whom then are we to turn our eyes for help on this 
occasion ? I answer, to the British Parliament, to that Parlia- 
ment, which has already heard and redressed in part the ivrongs 
of Africa. 

But here no doubt a considerable opposition would arise on the 
part of the West Indian planters. They would consider any such 
interference by the British Parliament as an invasion of their rights, 
and they would cry out accordingly. We remember that they set 
up a clamour when the abolition of the slave trade was first pro- 
posed. But what did Mr. Pitt say to them in the House of Com- 
mons ? li 1 will now," said he, <f consider the proposition, that on 
account of some patrimonial rights of the West Indians, the prohi- 
bition of the slave trade would be an invasion of their legal inheri- 
tance. This proposition implied that Parliament had no right to 
stop the importations ; but had this detestable traffic received such 
a sanction, as placed it more out of the jurisdiction of the Legisla- 
ture for ever after, than any other branch of our trade ? But if the 
laws respecting the slave trade implied a contract for its perpetual 
continuance, the House could never regulate any other of the 
branches of our national commerce. But any contract for the pro- 
motion of this trade must, in his opinion, have been void from the be- 
ginning; for if it was an out rage upon justice, and only another name 
for fraud, robbery, and murder, what pledge could devolve upon the 
Legislature to incur the obligation of becoming principals in the 
commission of such enormities by sanctioning their continuance ?" 

They set up a similar clamour, when the Registry Bill was dis- 
cussed in Parliament, contending that it was an interference with 
their rights : but we must not forget the reply which Mr. Canning 
made to them on that occasion. " He had known, (he said,) and 
there might again occur, instances of obstinacy in the colonial 
assemblies, which left the British Parliament no choice but direct 
interference. Such conduct might now call for such an exertion 
on the part of Parliament ; but all that he pleaded for was, that 
time should be granted, that it might be known if the colonial 
assemblies would take upon them to do what that House was 
pleased to declare should be done. The present address could 
not be misunderstood. It told the colonial assemblies, You are 
safe for the present from the interference of the British Parlia- 
ment, in the belief, and on the promise made for you, that left 

to 



to yourselves you will do what is required of you. To hold 
this language was sufficient. The Assemblies might be left to 
infer the consequenees of a refusal, and Parliament might rest 
satisfied with the consciousness, that they held in their hands the 
means of accomplishing that which they had proposed." In a 
subsequent discussion of the subject in the House of Lords, Lord 
Holland remarked, that " in his opinion there had been more pre- 
judice against this Bill than the nature of the thing justified ; but, 
whatever might be the objection felt against it in the Colonies, it 
might be well for them to consider, that it would be impossible for 
them to resist ; and that if the thing was not done by them, it would 
be done for them." But on this subject, that is, on the subject of 
colonial rights, I shall say more in another place. It will be 
proper, however, to repeat here, and to insist upon it too, that 
there is no effectual way of remedying the evil complained of, but 
by subjecting all the colonial laws to the revision of the Legislature 
of the mother country ; and perhaps I shall disarm some of the 
opponents to this measure, and at any rate free myself from the 
charge of a novel and wild proposition, when I inform them that 
Mr. Long, the celebrated historian and planter of Jamaica, and to 
whose authority all West Indians look up, adopted the same idea. 
Writing on the affairs of Jamaica, he says : " The system* of Co- 
lonial government, and the imperfection of their several laws, are 
subjects, which never were, but which ought to be, strictly can- 
vassed, examined, and amended by the British Parliament/' 

The second and last step to be taken by the Abolitionists should 
be, to collect all possible light on the subject of emancipation, with 
a view of carrying that measure into effect in its due time. They 
ought never to forget, that emancipation was included in the ori- 
ginal idea of the abolition of the slave trade. Slavery was then as 
much an evil in their eyes as the trade itself ; and so long as the 
former continues in its present state, the extinction of it ought to 
be equally an object of their care. All the slaves in our colonies, 
whether men, women, or children, whether Africans or Creoles, 
have been unjustly deprived of their rights. There is not a master, 
who has the least claim to their services in point of equity. There 
is, therefore, a great debt due to them, and for this no payment, 
no amends, no equivalent can be found, but a restoration to their 
liberty. 

That all have been unjustly deprived of their rights, may be easily 
shown by examining the different grounds on which they are al- 
leged to be held in bondage. With respect to those in our colo- 



* See Dickson's Mitigation of Slavery 3 p. 339. 

hies, 



niesj who are Africans, I never heard of any title to them but by 
the right of purchase. But it will be asked, where did the pur- 
chasers get them ? It will be answered that they got them from 
the spllers> Aud where did the sellers, that is, the original sellers, 
get them ? They got them by fraud or violence. So says the 
evidence before the House of Commons ; and so, in fact, said 
both Houses of Parliament, when they abolished the trade : and 
this is the plea set up for retaining them in a cruel bondage ! ! ! 

With respect to the rest of the slaves, that is, the Creoles, or 
those born -in the colonies, the services, the perpetual services, of 
these are claimed on the plea of the law of birth. They were born 
slaves, and this circumstance is said to give to their masters a suf- 
ficient right to their persons. But this doctrine sprung from the 
old Roman law, which taught that all slaves were to be considered 
as cattle. (i Partus sequitur ventrem," says this law, or ft the con- 
dition or lot of the mother determines the condition or lot of the 
offspring." It is the same law, which we ourselves now apply to 
cattle while they are in our possession. Thus the calf belongs 
to the man who owns the cow, and the foal to the man who owns 
the mare, and not to the owner of the bull or horse, which were 
the male-parents of each. It is then upon this, the old Roman 
law, and not upon any English law, that the planters found their 
right to the services of such as are born in slavery. In confor- 
mity with this law they denied, for one hundred and fifty years, 
both the moral and intellectual nature of the slave. They con- 
sidered him themselves, and they wished him to be considered by 
others, in these respects, as upon a level only with the beasts of 
the field. Happily, however, their efforts have been in vain. The 
evidence taken before the House of Commons in the years 1789, 
1790, aud 1791, has confirmed the falsehood of their doctrines. 
Jt has proved that the social affections and the intellectual powers 
both of Africans and Creoles are the same as those of other hu- 
man beings. What then becomes of the Roman law ? For as 
it takes no other view of slaves than as cattle, how is it applicable 
to those who are proved and admitted to be men P 

This is the grand plea, upon which our West Indian planters 
have founded their right to the perpetual services of their Creole 
slaves. They consider them as the young or offspring of cattle. 
But as the slaves in question have been proved, and are now ac- 
knowledged, to be the offspring of men and women, of social, in- 
tellectual, and accountable beings, their right must fall to the 
ground. Nor do I know upon what other principle or right they 
can support it. They can have surely no right of property by 
nature in the infant, who is born of a woman slave. They can, 
moreover, have no such right, either on the score of reason or of 

justice. 



9 

justice. Debt and crime have been generally admitted to be 
two fair grounds, on which 'men may be justly deprived of their 
liberty for a time, and even made to labour, inasmuch as they 
include reparation of injury, and the duty of the magistrate 
to make examples. But what injury had the infant done, when 
it came into the world, to the master of its mother, that reparation 
should be sought for, or punishment inflicted, and that this re- 
paration and this punishment should be made to consist of a 
course of action and suffering, against which, more than against 
any other, human nature revolts ? Is it reasonable, is it just, that 
a poor infant who has done no injury to any one, should be sub- 
jected, he and his posterity for ever, to the arbitrary will and ty- 
ranny of another, and in fact to the condition of a brute, because, 
without any fault or will of his own, he was born of a person who 
had been previously in the condition of a slave ? 

And as the right to slaves, because they were born slaves, can- 
not be defended either upon the principles of reason or of justice, 
so this right absolutely falls to pieces, when we come to try it by 
the touchstone of the Christian religion. Every man who is born 
into the world, whether he be white or whether he be black, is 
born, according to that religion, an accountable creature. This is 
the Scriptural law of his nature as a human being. He is born 
under this law, and he continues under it during his life. Now 
the West Indian slavery is of such an arbitrary nature, that it may 
be termed proper or absolute. The dominion attached to it is a 
pure despotism ; a despotism, which keeps up its authority by terror 
only. The subjects of it must do, and that instantaneously, what- 
ever their master orders them to do, whether it be right or wrong. 
His will, and his will alone, is their law. If the wife of a slave 
weee ordered by a master to submit herself to his lusts, or if her 
husband were ordered to steal for him, neither the one nor the other 
would dare to disobey his commands. " The whip, the shackles, 
the dungeon," says Mr. Steele before mentioned, " are at all times 
in his power, whether it be to gratify his lust, or display his autho- 
rity*." A power in the master to make his slaves do what he 
orders them to do, even if it be wrong, must be admitted to be di- 
rectly opposed to the Scriptures, whose authority we venerate, 
unless we will contend that his slaves, though born moral agents 
and accountable creatures, as soon as they became slaves were 
deprived of their condition of moral agency and lost their respon- 
sibility as men. But as it is the revealed will of God, that all men, 
without exception, must be accountable to God for their actions-; 
• — I contend that there can be, according to the Gospel-dispensa- 



* See Dickson's Mitigation of Slavery, p. 50. 

tiol), 



. 10 

tion, no such slate as West Indian slavery. Let us suppose for a 
moment, that slaves might be found enlightened by some pious 
Missionary, who should refuse to execute their master's orders on 
the principle that they were contrary to the will of God ; even this 
would not alter our view of the case. For such a refusal might, 
and probably would, be regarded as so immediately destructive 
to all authority and discipline, that it would be followed by imme~ 
diate and signal punishment. Here then we should have a West 
Indian master reversing all the laws of right and wrong, and all 
the morality of the Gospel, by the practice of punishing men for 
their virtues. This case affords another argument, why a man 
cannot justly be born or continue a slave in the West Indian 
sense of the term. In fact, the whole system of our planters ap- 
pears to be so directly in opposition to the whole system and 
spirit of our religion, (a religion requiring us to love our neighbour 
as ourselves, and to do unto others as we would they should do 
unto us,) that i have no conception, how consistently with it a, 
man can be born a slave, such as the West Indian is ; nor how 
he can be, justly, or properly, a West Indian slave at all. There 
appears to me something even impious in the thought ; and I am 
convinced, that many years will not pass, before the West Indian 
slavery will fall, and that future ages will contemplate with asto- 
nishment the fact that preceding ages should have tolerated it. 

It has now appeared, if I have reasoned conclusively, that the 
West Indians have no title to their slaves on the ground of pur- 
chase, nor on the plea of the law of birth, nor on that of any na- 
tural right, nor on that of reason or justice, and that Christianity 
absolutely annihilates it. It remains only to show, that they have 
no title to them on the ground of original grants or permissions of 
Governments, or of Acts of Parliament, or of Charters, or of En- 
glish law. 

With respect to original grants or permissions of Governments, 
the case is very clear. History informs us, that neither the African 
slave trade nor the West Indian slavery would have been allowed, 
had it not been for the misrepresentations and falsehoods of those, 
who were first concerned in them. The Governments of those times 
were made to believe, first, that the poor Africans embarked volun- 
tarily on board the. ships which took them from their native land ; 
and secondly, that they were conveyed to the Colonies principally 
for their own benefit, or out of Christian feeling for them, that they 
might afterwards be converted to Christianity . Take as an instance 
of the first assertion, the way in which Queen Elizabeth was de- 
ceived, in whose reign the execrable slave trade began in England. 
This great princess seems on the very commencement of the trade 
to have questioned its lawfulness. She seems to have entertained 

a reli- 



11 

a religious scruple concerning it, and indeed to have revolted at 
the very thoughts of it. She seems to have heen aware of the evils 
to which its continuance might lead, or that, if it were sanctioned, 
the most unjustifiable means might be made use of to procure the 
persons of the natives of Africa. And in what light she would 
have viewed any acts of this kind, had they taken place to her 
knowledge, we may conjecture from this fact — that when Captain 
(afterwards Sir John) Hawkins returned from his first voyage to 
Africa and Hispaniola, whither he had carried slaves, she sent for 
him, and, as we learn from Hill's Naval History, expressed her 
concern lest any of the Africans should be carried off without their 

free consent, declaring, " that it would be detestable and call down 
the vengeance of Heaven upon the undertakers." Capt. Hawkins 
promised to comply with the injunctions of Elizabeth in this respect. 
But he did not keep his word ; for when he went to Africa again, 
he seized many of the inhabitants and carried them off as slaves. 
" Here (says Hill) began the horrid practice of forcing the Africans 
into slavery; an injustice and barbarity, which, so sure as there is 
vengeance in Heaven for the worst of crimes, will some time be 
the destruction of all who encourage it." Take as an instance of 

- the second what Labat, a Roman missionary, records in his ac- 
count of the Isles of America. He says, that Louis the Thirteenth 
was very uneasy when he was about to issue the edict by which all 
Africans brought into his colonies were to be made slaves; and that 
this uneasiness continued, till he was assured that the introduction 
of them in this capacity into his foreign dominions was the readiest 
way of converting them to the principles of the Christian religion. 
It was with the understanding, then, that the Africans left their 
own country voluntarily, and that they were to receive the blessings 
of Christianity, that the first transportations were allowed, and that 
the first English grants and Acts of Parliament, and that the first 
foreign edicts, sanctioned them. We have therefore the fact well 
authenticated, as it relates to original Government grants and per- 
missions, that the title of the owners of many of the Creole slaves 
in our colonies had its origin in fraud and falsehood. 

Neither have the masters of slaves in our colonies any title to 
their slaves on account of any charters, which they may be able to 
produce, though their charters are the only source of their power. 
It is through these alone that they have hitherto legislated, and 
that thev continue to legislate. And yet, though they have their 
charters, and though the slavery, which now exists, has been 
formed and kept together entirely by the laws which such charters 
have given them the power to make, this very slavery is illegal. 
There is not an individual, who holds any of the slaves by a legal 
title : for it is expressed in all these charters, that " the laws and 

statutes. 



12 

statutes, to be made under them, are not to be repugnant, but, as 
near as may be, agreeable, to the laws and statutes of this our king- 
dom of Great Britain" But is it consistent with the laws of England, 
that any one man should have the power of forcing another to work 
for him without wages ? Is it consistent with the laws of England, 
that any one man should have the power of flogging, beating, bruis- 
ing, or wounding another at his discretion ? Is it consistent with 
the laws of England, that a man should be judged by any but his 
peers ? Is it consistent with the same laws that a man should be 
deprived of the power of giving evidence against any one who has 
injured him ? or that there should be a privileged class, against 
whom no testimony can be admitted on certain occasions, though 
they should be the perpetrators of the most horrid crimes ? But 
when wo talk of consistency on this occasion, let us not forget that 
old law of Barbadoes, (made while the charter of that island was 
fresh in every body's memory, and therefore in the very teeth of 
the charter itself,) which runs thus : " If any slave, under punish- 
ment by his master, or by his order, shall suffer in life or member, 
no person shall be liable to any fine for the same : but if any person 
shall wantonly or cruelly kill his own slave, he shall pay the treasury 
15/." And here let us remark, that, when Lord Seaforth, governor 
of Barbadoes, proposed, so lately as in 1802, the repeal of this 
sanguinary law, the Legislature of that island rejected the propo- 
sition with indignation. Nay, the very proposal to repeal it so 
stirred up at the time the bad passions of many, that several brutal 
murders of slaves were committed in consequence; and it was 
not till two or three years afterwards that the governor had in- 
fluence enough to get the law repealed, and even then it was but 
very imperfectly done. Let the West Indians then talk no more of 
their charters ; for in consequence of having legislated upon prin- 
ciples, which are at variance with those upon which the laws of 
England are founded, they have forfeited them all. The mother 
country has therefore a right to withdraw these charters whenever 
she pleases, and to substitute such others as she may think proper. 
And here let it be observed also, that the right of the West Indians 
to make any laws at all for their own islands being founded upon 
their charters, and upon these alone, and the laws relating to the 
slaves being contrary to what such charters prescribe, the slavery 
itself, that is, the daily living practice with respect to slaves under 
such laws, is illegal and may be done away. But if so, all our West 
Indian slaves are, without exception, unlawfully held in bondage. 
There is no master, who has a legal title to any of them. This as- 
sertion may appear strange and extravagant to many ; but it does 
not follow on that account that it is the less true. It is an asser- 
tion, which has been made by a West Indian proprietor himself. 

Mr. 



13 

Mr. Steele*, before quoted, furnishes us with what passed at the meet- 
ing of the Society of Arts in Barbadoes at their committee-room in 
August 1785, when the following question was in the order of the 
day ; " Is there any law written, or printed, by which a proprietor 
can prove his title to his slave under or conformable to the laws of 
England ? " And " Why, (immediately said one of the members,) 
why conformable to the laws of England ? Will not the courts in 
England admit such proof as is authorized by our slave laws P" — 
* f I apprehend not, (answered a second,) unless we can show that 
our slave laws (according to the limitations of the charter) are not 
repugnant to the laws of England." — The same gentleman resumed : 
** Does the original purchaser of an African slave in this island ob- 
tain any legal title from the merchant or importer of slaves — and of 
what nature ? Does it set forth any title of propriety, agreeable to 
the laws of England (or even to the laws of nations) to be in the im- 
porter more than what depends upon his simple averment ? And 
have not free Negroes been at sundry times trepanned by such 
dealers, and been brought contrary to the laws of nations, and sold, 
here as slaves ?" — " There is no doubt, (observed a third,) but such 
villainous actions have been done by worthless people : however, 
though an honest and unsuspicious man may be deceived in buying 
a stolen horse, it does not follow that he may not have a fair and just 
title to a horse or any thing else bought in an open and legal market; 
but according to the obligation of being not repugnant to the laws 
of England, I do not see how we can have any title to our slaves 
likely to be supported by the laws of England." In fact, the Colo- 
nial system is an excrescence upon the English Constitution, and is 
constantly at variance with it. There is not one English law, which 
gives a man a right to deprive of liberty any of his fellow creatures. 
Of course there cannot be, according to charters, any Colonial law 
to this effect. If there be, it is null and void. Nay, the very 
man, who is held in bondage by the Colonial law, becomes free by 
English law the moment he reaches the English shore. But we 
have said enough for our present purpose. We have shown that 
the slaves in our Colonies, whether they be Africans, or whether 
they be Creoles, have beenunjuslly deprived of their rights. There 
is of course a great debt due to them. They have a claim to a 
restoration to liberty ; and as this restoration was included by the 
Abolitionists in their original idea of the abolition of the slave- 
trade, so it is their duty to endeavour to obtain it the first moment 
it is practicable. I shall conclude my observations on this part of 
the subject, in the words of that old champion of African liberty, 
Mr. W. Smith, the present Member for Norwich, when addressing 



See Dickson's Mitigation of Slavery, p. 102. 

the 



14 

the House of Commons on the 25th of July 1822, respecting 
slavery. He admitted, alluding to the slaves in our colonies, that 
" immediate emancipation might be an injury, and not a blessing, 
to the slaves themselves. A period of preparation, which unhappily 
included delay, seemed to be necessary. The ground of this delay, 
however, was not the intermediate advantage to be derived from 
their labour, but a conviction of its expediency as it related to 
themselves. We had to compensate to these wretched beings for 
ages of injustice. We were bound by the strongest obligations to 
train up these subjects of our past injustice and tyranny for an 
equal participation with ourselves in the blessings of liberty and 
the protection of the law ; and by these considerations ought our 
measures to be strictly and conscientiously regulated. It was only 
in consequence of the necessity of time to be consumed in suoh a 
preparation, that we could be justified in the retention of the Ne- 
groes in slavery for a single hour : and he trusted that the eyes of 
all men, both here and in the colonies, would be open to this view 
of the subject as their clear and indispensable duty." 

Having led the reader to the first necessary step to be taken in 
favour of our slaves in the British Colonies, — namely, the procuring 
for them a new and better code of laws ; and having since led him 
to the last or final one,- — namely, the procuring for them the rights 
of which they have been unjustly deprived ; I shall now confine 
myself entirely to this latter branch of the subject, being assured, 
that it has a claim to all the attention that can be bestowed upon 
it; and I trust that I shall be able to show, by appealing to histo- 
rical facts, that however awful and tremendous the work of eman- 
cipation may seem, it is yet practicable ; that it is practicable also 
without danger ; and moreover, that it is practicable with the pro- 
bability of advantage to all the parties concerned. 

In appealing however to facts for this purpose, we must expect 
no light from antiquity to guide us on our way J for history gives 
us no aecount of persons in those times similarly situated with the 
slaves in the British colonies at the present day. There were no 
particular nations in those times, like the Africans, expressly set 
apart for slavery by the rest of the world, so as to have a stigma 
put upon them on that account, nor did a difference of the colour 
of the skin constitute always, as it now does, a most marked distinc- 
tion between the master and the slave, so as to increase this stigma 
and to perpetuate antipathies between them. Nor did the slaves 
of antiquity, except perhaps once in Sparta, form the whole labour- 
ing population of the land ; nor did they work incessantly, like the 
Africans, under the whip ; nor were they generally so far behind their 
masters in cultivated intellect. Neither does ancient history give 
us in the cases of manumission, which it records, any parallel, from 

which 



15 

which we might argue in the case before us. The ancient manu- 
missions were those of individuals only, generally of but one at a 
time, and only now and then ; whereas the emancipation, which 
we contemplate in the colonies, will comprehend whole bodies of' 
men, nay, whole populations , at a given time. We must go there- 
fore in quest of examples to modern times, or" rather to the history 
of colonial slavery itself. 

In examining a period comprehending the last forty years, I find 
no less than six or seven instances of the emancipation of African 
slaves in bodies. The first of these cases occurred at the close of 
the first American war. A number of slaves had run away from 
their North American masters and joined the British army. When 
peace came, the British Government did not know what to do 
with them. Their services were no longer wanted. To leave them 
behind to fall again into the power of their masters would have 
been great cruelty as well as injustice ; and as to taking them to 
England, what could have been done with them there ? It was 
at length determined to give them their liberty, and to disband 
them in Nova Scotia, and to settle them there upon grants of land 
as British subjects and as free men. The Nova Scotians on learn- 
ing their destination were alarmed. They could not bear the 
thought of having such a number of black persons among them, 
and particularly as they understood the use of arms. The Go- 
vernment, however, persevering in its original intention, they were 
conveyed to Halifax, and distributed from thence into the country. 

Their number, comprehending men, women, and children, were 
two thousand and upwards. To gain their livelihood, some of 
them worked upon little portions of land of their own ; others 
worked as carpenters ; others became fishermen ; and others 
worked for hire in other ways. In process of time, having em- 
braced Christianity, they raised places of worship of their own, 
and had ministers of their own from their own body. They led a 
harmless life, and gained the character of an industrious and honest 
people from their white neighbours. A few years afterwards the 
land in Nova Scotia being found too poor to answer, and the cli- 
mate too cold for their constitutions, a number of them, to the 
amount of between thirteen and fourteen hundred, volunteered to 
form a new colony, which was then first thought of, at Sierra 
Leone. Accordingly, having been conveyed there, they realized 
the object in view ; and they are to be found there, they or their 
descendants, most of them in independent and some of them in 
affluent circumstances, at the present day. 

A second case may be taken from what occurred at the close of 
the second, or last American war. It may be remembered that a 
large British squadron, having on board a powerful land force, 

made 



16 

i 

made a descent, in the year 1814, on different parts of the coast 
of the southern United States. During these expeditions, some 
hundreds of American slaves joined the British standard by invi- 
tation. When the campaign was over, the same difficulty oc- 
curred about disposing of these as in the former case. It was 
determined at length to fix them in Trinidad as free labourers. 
But, at Trinidad, a new objection was started against receiving 
them. The planters of that island were sure that no free Negroes 
would ever work for hire, and therefore that the refugees in question 
would, if made free and settled among them, support themselves 
by plunder. Sir Ralph Woodford, however, the governor of the 
island, resisted these prejudices. He received them into the 
island, and settled them where he supposed the experiment would 
be most safely made. The result has shown his discernment. 
These very men, formerly slaves in the Southern States of America, 
and afterwards emancipated in a body at Trinidad, are now earn- 
ing their own livelihood, and with so much industry and good 
conduct, that the calumnies originally spread against them have 
entirely died away. 

A third case comprehends those- Negroes, who lately formed 
the West Indian black regiments. Some of these had been o'ri- 
ginally purchased, not as slaves but recruits, and others were 
drawn from among the slaves liberated from the holds of contra- 
band slave ships. They had all served as soldiers in the West 
Indies. At length certain of these troops were removed to Sierra 
Leone and disbanded there, and others were disbanded in the 
West Indies, the whole of them receiving their discharge as free 
men. This happened in the spring of 1819. Many hundreds of 
them were set at liberty at once upon this occasion at Sierra 
Leone, where they founded Waterloo, Hastings, and other vil- 
lages, being settled upon lands given them by the Government. 
Many brought with them their wives from the West Indies, and 
others selected wives from the natives on the spot. It appears 
from accounts received from Sir Charles M'Carthy, the governor 
of Sierra Leone, that they have conducted themselves to his satis- 
faction, and that they will prove a valuable addition to that colony. 
Those disbanded in the West Indies have conducted themselves 
with similar propriety. 

A fourth case comprehends what are called the captured Negroes 
in the colony of Sierra Leone. They are totally distinct from 
any which have been mentioned. These were taken out of slave- 
ships captured at different times from the commencement of the 
abolition of the slave trade to the present moment, and on being 
landed ivere made free. After having recruited their health, they 
were taught to form villages and to cultivate land for themselves. 

They 



17. 

Tliey were made free as they were landed from the vessels, in 
bodies of from fifty to three or four hundred at a time. They 
occupy at present twelve towns, in which there are both churches 
and schools. Regents Town having been one of the first esta- 
blished, containing about thirteen hundred souls, stands fore- 
most in improvement, and has become a pattern for industry and 
good example. The people there have now fallen into the habits 
of civilized society. They are decently and respectably dressed. 
They attend divine worship regularly. They exhibit an orderly 
and moral conduct. In their town little shops begin to make 
their appearance ; and their lands show the marks of industrious 
cultivation. Many of them, after having supplied their wants for 
the year, employ a surplus produce in the purchase of super- 
fluities or comforts. The whole number of these persons is about 
14,000. 

Here then are four eases of slaves, either Africans or descendants 
of Africans, emancipated in considerable bodies at a time. I have 
kept them by themselves, because they differ from those which 
follow ; and I shall now reason upon them. Let me premise, 
however, that I shall consider the first three of the cases as one, 
so that the same reasoning will do for all. They are alike indeed 
in their main features ; and we must consider this as sufficient ; 
for to attend minutely to every shade of difference *, which may 
occur in every case, seems unnecessary. 

It will be said then, that the first three cases are not strictly 
analogous to that of the West Indian slaves. It will be con- 
tended, that the slaves in our West Indian colonies having been 
constantly in an abject and degraded state, their faculties are be- 
numbed; they have contracted all the vices of slavery; and their 
bosoms burn with revenge against the whites. How then can 
persons in such a state be fit to receive their freedom ? The slaves, 
on the other hand, who are comprehended in the above three 
cases, found in the British army a school as it were, ivhichjitted 
them by degrees for making a good use of their liberty. While they 
were there, they were never out of the reach of discipline, and yet 
were left in some measure to act as free men. They obtained in 
this preparatory school some knowledge of the customs of civilized 
life. They were in the habit also of mixing familiarly with the 
white soldiers. Hence, it will be said, they were in a state much 
more favourable for undergoing a change in their condition than 

* A part of the black regiments were procured in Africa as recruits, were 
not transported in slave-ships, and were never under West Indian masters : 
but it was only a small part compared with the whole number in the three 
cases, 

c the 



IS 

the West Indian slaves. I admit all this. But I never stated, 
that our West Indian slaves were to be emancipated suddenly, but 
ly degrees. I always took it for granted, that they were to have 
their preparatory school also. Nor must it be forgotten, as a com- 
parison has been instituted, that if there was less danger in emanci- 
pating the other slaves, because they had received something like a 
preparatory education for the change, there was far more in an- 
other point of view, because they were all acquainted with the use 
of arms. Would our West Indian planters be as much at their 
ease, as they now are, if their slaves had acquired a knowledge of 
the use of arms, or would they think them on this account more 
or less fit for emancipation ? 

It will be said again, that the fourth case, consisting of the Sierra 
Leone captured Negroes, is not strictly analogous to the one in 
point. These may have been slaves butybr a short time, previous 
to their capture upon the ocean, so that they had scarcely been 
slaves when they were returned to the rank of free men. Little 
or no change could have been effected in so short an interval in 
their disposition and their character; and, as they were never car- 
ried to the West Indies, so they could not have contracted the bad 
habits, or the degradation, or the vices, of the slavery there. It 
will be contended therefore, that they were better, or less hazard- 
ous, subjects for emancipation, than the slaves in our colonies. 
Giving to this objection its full weight, the case of the Sierra Leone 
captured Negroes will nevertheless be found to be a very strong 
one. They were all Africans. They were all slaves. They 
must have contracted as mortal a hatred of the whites from their 
sufferings on board ship by fetters, whips, and suffocation in the 
hold, as the West Indian slaves from those severities which are at- 
tached to their bondage on shore. Under these circumstances 
we find them made free ; not after any preparatory discipline, but 
almost suddenly ; and not singly, but in bodies at a time. We 
find them also settled or made to live under the unnatural govern- 
ment of the whites ; and, what is more extraordinary, we find their 
present number, as compared with that of the whites in the same 
colony, nearly as one hundred and fifty to one; notwithstanding 
which superiority fresh emancipations are constantly taking place, 
as fresh cargoes of captured contrabandists arrive in port. 

It will be said, lastly, that all the four cases put together prove 
nothing. They can give us nothing like a positive assurance, that 
the Negro slaves in our colonies would pass through the ordeal of 
emancipation \yithout danger to their masters or the community 
at large. Certainly not. Nor if these instances had been far more 
numerous than they are, could they, in this world of accidents, 
have given us a moral certainty of this. They afford us however 

a hope, 



10 

a hope, that emancipation is practicable without danger: for will 
any one pretend to say, that we should have had as much reason 
for entertaining such a hope, if no such instances had occurred ; 
or that we should not have had reason to despair, if four such ex- 
periments had been made, and if they had all failed P They afford 
us again ground for believing, that there is a peculiar softness, and 
plasticity, and pliability in the African character. This softness 
may be collected almost every where from the travel of Mr. 
Mungo Park, and has been noticed by other writers, who have 
contrasted it with the unbending ferocity of the North American 
Indians and other tribes. But if this be a feature in the African 
character, we may account for the uniformity of the conduct of 
those Africans, who were liberated on the several occasions above 
mentioned, and for their yielding so uniformly to the impressions, 
which had been given them by their superiors, after they had been 
made free; and, if this be so, why should not our colonial slaves, if 
emancipated, conduct themselves in the same manner ? Besides, 
I am not sure whether the good conduct of the liberated slaves in 
these cases was not to be attributed in part to a sense of interest, 
when they came to know, that their condition was to be improved. 
Self-interest is a leading principle with all who are born into the 
world ; and why is the Negro slave in our colonies to be denied 
this common feeling of our nature ? — why is he to rise against his 
master, when he is informed that his condition is to be bettered ? 
On the contrary, is he not likely rather to rejoice and feel grateful, 
when he is made to experience better laws and better treatment ? 

The fifth case may comprehend the slaves of St. Domingo 
made free at different intervals in the course of the French Revo- 
lution. 

To do justice to this case, I must give a history of the circum- 
stances connected with it. When the French Revolution, which 
decreed equality of rights to all citizens, had taken place, thefree 
People of Colour of St. Domingo, many of whom were persons of 
large property and liberal education, petitioned the National As- 
sembly, that they might enjoy the same political privileges as the 
Whites. At length, in March 1790, the subject of the petition 
was discussed, when the Assembly adopted a decree concerning it. 
The decree, however, was worded so ambiguously, that the two 
parties in St. Domingo, the Whites and the People of Colour, in- 
terpreted it each in their own favour. This difference of interpre- 
tation gave rise to animosities between them, which were aug- 
mented by political party-spirit, according as they were royalists, 
or partizans of the French Revolution ; so that disturbances took 
place and blood was shed. 

In the year 1791, the People of Colour petitioned the Assembly 

c 2 again, 



20 

again, but principally for an explanation of the decree in question. 
On the 15th of May, the subject was taken into consideration 
and the result was another decree in explicit terms, which deter- 
mined that the People of Colour in all the French islands were 
entitled to all the rights of citizenship, provided they were lorn of 
free parents on both sides. The news of this decree had no sooner 
arrived at the Cape, than it produced an indignation almost amount- 
ing to phrensy among the Whiles. They directly trampled under 
foot the national cockade, and with difficulty were prevented from 
seizing all the French merchant ships in the roads. After this 
the two parties armed against each other. Even camps began to 
be formed. Horrible massacres and conflagrations followed, the 
reports of which, when brought to the mother-country, were so 
terrible, that the Assembly rescinded the decree in favour of the 
free People of 'Colour in the same vear. 

In the year 1792, the news of this new decree reached St. Do- 
mingo, and produced as much irritation among the People of 
Colour, as the news of the former had done among the Whites, 
and hostilities were renewed between them. As soon as these 
events became known in France, the Conventional Assembly, which 
had then succeeded the Legislative, seeing no hope of reconcilia- 
tion on either side, knew not what other course to take than to do 
justice, whatever the consequences might be. They resolved, 
accordingly, in the month of April, that the decree of 1791, which 
had been first made and then reversed by the preceding Assembly, 
should stand good, thus restoring to the People of Colour the pri- 
vileges which had been before voted to them ; and they appointed 
Santhonax, Polverel, and another, to repair as commissioners to 
St. Domingo, with a large body of troops, in order to enforce the 
decree and to keep the peace. 

In the year 1793, the same divisions and the same bad blood 
continuing, notwithstanding the arrival of the commissioners, a 
very trivial matter, a quarrel between a Mulatto and a White man 
(an officer in the French marine), gave rise to new disasters. This 
quarrel took place at Cape Francois, on the 20th of June. On 
the same day the seamen left their ships in the roads, and came 
on shore, and made common cause with the white inhabitants of 
the town. On the other side were ranged the Mulattos and other 
People of Colour, and these were afterwards joined by some in- 
surgent Blacks. The battle lasted nearly two days. During this 
time the arsenal was taken and plundered, some thousands were 
killed in the streets, and more than half the town was burnt. 
The commissioners, who were spectators of this horrible scene, 
and who had done all they could to restore peace, escaped unhurt, 
but they were left upon a heap of ruins, and with but little more 

power 



21 

power than the authority which their commission gave them. 
They had only about a thousand troops left in the place. They 
determined, therefore, under these circumstances, to call in the 
Slaves in the neighbourhood to their assistance. They issued a 
proclamation in consequence, by which I hey promised to give free- 
dom to all the Blacks who were willing to range themselves under 
the banners of the Republic. This was the first proclamation 
made by public authority for emancipating slaves in St. Domingo, 
and was usually called the proclamation of Santhonax. The re- 
sult of it was, that a considerable number of slaves came in and 
were enfranchised. 

Soon after this transaction, Polverel left. his colleague Santhonax 
at the Cape, and went in his capacity of commissioner to Port au 
Prince, the capital of the West. Here he found every thing quiet, 
and cultivation in a flourishing state. From Port au Prince he 
visited Les Caves, the capital of the South. He had not, how- 
ever, been long there, before he found that the minds of the slaves 
began to be in an unsettled state. They had become acquainted 
with what had taken place in the North, not only with the riots at 
the Cape, but the proclamation of Santhonax. Polverel there- 
fore, seeing the impression which it had begun to make upon the 
minds of the slaves in these parts, was convinced that emancipa- 
tion could be neither prevented nor even retarded, and that it was 
absolutely necessary for the personal safely of the white planters, 
that it should be extended to the whole island. He was so con- 
vinced of the necessity of this, that in September 17^3, he drew up 
a proclamation without further delay to thflt effect) and put it into 
circulation. He dated it from Les Cayes. He exhorted the 
planters to patronize it. He advised them, if they wished to avoid 
the most serious calamities, to concur themselves in the proposi- 
tion of giving freedom to their slaves. He then caused a registry 
to be opened at the Government House to receive the signatures of 
all those who should approve of his advice. It was remarkable 
that all the proprietors in these parts inscribed their names in the 
book. He then caused a similar registry to be opened at Port au 
Prince for the West. Here the same disposition was found to 
prevail. All the planters, except one, gave in their signatures. 
They had become pretty generally convinced by this time, that 
their own personal safety was connected with the measure. We 
may now add, that in the month of February 1794, the Conven- 
tional Assembly of France passed a decree for the abolition of 
slavery throughout the whole of the French colonies. Thus the 
Government of the mother-country confirmed freedom to those 
upon whom it had been bestowed by the commissioners. This 
decree put therefore the finishing stroke to the whole. It com- 
pleted 



22 

pleted the emancipation of the whole slave population of St. 
Domingo. 

Having given a concise history of the abolition of slavery in 
St. Domingo, I shall inquire how those who were liberated con- 
ducted themselves after this change in their situation. 

With respect to those emancipated by Santhonax in the North, 
I do not find, in the various histories I have seen, any thing par- 
ticular to communicate. With respect to those who were eman- 
cipated in the South and West, by the proclamation of Polverel, 
we are enabled to give a very pleasing account. Colonel Malen- 
fant, who was resident in the island at the time, has made us ac- 
quainted with their general conduct and character. His state- 
ment, though short, is highly satisfactory *. " After this public 
act of emancipation," says he, (by Polverel,) '" the Negroes re- 
mained quiet both in the South and in the West, and they con- 
tinued to work upon all the plantations. There were estates, 
indeed, which had neither owners nor managers resident upon 
them, for some of these had been put into prison by Montbrun ; 
and others, fearing the same fate, had fled to the quarter which 
had just been given up to the English. Yet upon these estates, 
though abandoned, the Negroes continued their labours, where 
there were any, even inferior, agents to guide them ; and on those 
estates, where no white men were left to direct them, they betook 
themselves to the planting of provisions ; but upon all the planta- 
tions where the Whites resided, the Blacks continued to labour as 
quietly as before." A little further on in the work, ridiculing the 
notion entertained in France, that the Negroes would not work 
without compulsion, he takes occasion to allude to other Negroes^ 
who had been liberated by the same proclamation, but who were 
more immediately under his own eye and cognizance f. " If," 
says he, '• you will take care not to speak to them of their return 
to slavery, but talk to them about their liberty, you may with this 
latter word chain them down to their labour. How did Toussaint 
succeed ? How did I succeed also before his time in the plain of 
the Cul de Sac, and on the Plantation Gouraud, more than eight 
months after liberty had been granted (by Polverel) to the slaves ? 
Let those who knew me at that time, and even the Blacks them- 
selves, be asked. They will all reply, that not a single Negro 
upon that plantation, consisting of more than four hundred and 
fifty labourers, refused to work; and yet this plantation was thought 
to be under the worst discipline, and the slaves the most idle, of 

* M^moire historique et politique des Colonies, et particulierement de celle 
de St. Domingue, &c. Paris, August 1814, 8vo. p. 58. 
f Pp. 125, 126. 

anv 



23 

any in the plain. I, myself, inspired the same activity into three 
other plantations, of which 1 had the management." 

The above account is far beyond any thing that could have been 
expected. Indeed it is most gratifying. We find that the libe- 
rated Negroes Loth, in the South anil the West, continued to work 
upon their old plantations, and for their old masters ; that there 
was also a spirit of industry among them ; and that they gave no 
uneasiness to their employers ; for they are described as continuing 
to work as quietly as before. Such was the conduct of the Ne- 
groes for the first nine months after their liberation, or up to the 
middle of 1794. Let us pursue the subject, and see how they 
conducted themselves after this period. 

During the year 1795 and part of 1796, I can learn nothing 
about them, though I have ransacked the French historians for 
this purpose. Had any thing, however, occurred in the way of 
outrage, we should have heard of it. And here let me take this 
opportunity of setting my readers right, if, from not knowing the 
dates of occurrences, they should have connected the outrages, 
which assuredly took place in St. Domingo, in 1791 and J 792, 
with the effects of the emancipation of the slaves. The great mas- 
sacres and conflagrations, which at that time made so frightful a 
picture in the history of this unhappy island, occurred in the days 
of slavery, before the proclamations of Santhonax and Polverel, 
and before the great conventional decree of the mother-country 
vvas known. They had been occasioned, too, not originally by 
the slaves themselves, but by quarrels between the white and coloured 
planters, and between the royalists and the revolutionists, who, 
for the purpose of wreaking their vengeance upon each other, 
called in the aid of the slaves ; and as to the insurgent Negroes of 
the North, in particular, who filled that part of the colony in those 
years with terror and dismay, they were originally put in motion, 
according to Malenfant, by the royalists themselves, to strengthen 
their own cause, and to put down the partisans of the French revo- 
lution. When Jean Francois and Biassou commenced the insur- 
rection, there were many white royalists with them, and the 
Negroes were made to wear the white cockade. 1 repeat, then, 
that during the years 1795 and 1796, I can find nothing in the 
History of St. Domingo, wherewith to reproach the emancipated 
Negroes in the way of outrage*. There is every reason, on the 
other hand, to believe, that they conducted themselves, during this 
period, in as orderly a manner as before. 

* There were occasionally marauding parties from the mountains, who pil- 
laged in the plains ; but these were the old insurgents, and not the emanci- 
pated Negroes. 

I come 



24 

I come now to the latter part of the year 1/96 ; and here hap- 
pily a clue is furnished me, by which I have an opportunity of 
pursuing my inquiry. We shall find, that from this time there 
was no want either of industry or of obedience in those who had 
been emancipated : they maintained, on the contrary, a respectable 
character. Let us appeal first to Malenfant. " The colony/' 
says he*, " was flourishing under Toussaint. The Whites lived 
happily and in peace upon their estates, and the Negroes continued 
to work for them." Now Toussaint came into power, being 
general in chief of the armies of St. Domingo, a little before the 
end of the year 1796, and remained in power till the year 1802, 
or till the invasion of the island by the French expedition of Buona- 
parte under Leclerc. Malenfant means therefore to state, that 
from the latter end of 1796 to 1802, a period of six years, the 
planters or farmers kept possession of their estates ; that they 
lived upon them peaceably, without interruption or disturbance ; 
and that the Negroes though they had been all set free con- 
tinued to be the labourers. Can there be any account more 
favourable to our views than this, after so sudden an emanci- 
pation ? 

I may appeal next to General Lacroix, who published his 
" Memoirs for a History of St. Domingo," at Paris in 1819. He 
informs us, that when Santhonax, who had been recalled to France 
by the Government, returned to the colony in 1796, ■" he was 
astonished at the state in which he found it on his return." This, 
says Lacroix f, " was owing to Toussaint, who, while he had 
succeeded in establishing perfect order and discipline among the 
black troops, had succeeded also in making the black labourers 
return to the plantations, there to resume the drudgery of culti- 
vation." 

But the same author tells us, that in the next year (1797) the 
most wonderful progress had been made in agriculture. He uses 
these remarkable words : "The colony," says he %, " marched, as 
by enchantment, towards its ancient splendour ; cultivation pro- 
spered '■; every day produced perceptible proof s of its progress. The 
city of the Cape and the plantations of the North rose up agahi 
visibly to the eye." Now I am far from wishing to attribute all 
this wonderful improvement, this daily visible progress in agricul- 
ture, to the mere act of the emancipation of the slaves in St. Do- 
mingo. 1 know that many other circumstances may have con- 
tributed to its growth ; but I maintain, that unless the Negroes, 
who were then free, had done their part as labourers, both by 
working regularly and industriously, and by obeying the directions 

* P. 78. t Memoircs, p. 311, ' + Ibid. p. 324. t 

of 



25 

of their supei intendants or masters, the colon}' could never have 
prospered, as relates to cultivation, in the manner described. 

The next witness to whom I shall appeal, is the estimable 
General Vincent, who now lives at Paris, though at an advanced 
age. He was a colonel, and afterwards a general of brigade of 
artillery in St. Domingo. He was stationed there during the time 
both of Santhonax and Toussaint. He was also a proprietor of 
estates in the island. He was the man who planned the renova- 
tion of its agriculture after the abolition of slavery, and one of the 
great instruments in bringing it to the perfection mentioned by 
Lacroix. In the year 1801, he was called upon by Toussaint to 
repair to Paris, to lay before the Directory the new constitution 
which had been agreed upon in St. Domingo. He obeyed the 
summons. It happened, that he arrived in France just at the mo- 
ment of the peace of Amiens : here he found, to his inexpressible 
surprise and grief, that Buonaparte was preparing an immense 
armament, to be commanded by Leclerc, for the purpose of re- 
storing slavery in St. Domingo. He lost no time in seeing the 
First Consul, and he had the courage to say to him what, perhaps, 
no other man in France would have dared to say. He remon- 
strated against the expedition : he told him to his face, that though 
the army destined for this purpose was composed of the brilliant 
conquerors of Europe, it could do nothing in the Antilles. It 
would most assuredly be destroyed by the climate of St. Domingo, 
even if it should be doubtful, whether it would be destroyed by 
the Blacks. He stated, as another argument against the expe- 
dition, that it was totally unnecessary, and therefore criminal ; for 
that every thing ivas going on icell in St. Domingo. The proprie- 
tors were in peaceable possession of their estates ; cultivation was 
making a rapid progress ; the Blacks were industrious, and beyond 
example happy. He conjured him, therefore, in the name of hu- 
manity, not to reverse this beautiful state of things. But his efforts 
were ineffectual. The die had been cast : and the only reward 
which he received from Buonaparte for his manly and faithful re- 
presentations, was banishment to the Isle of Elba. 

Having brought my examination into the conduct of the Ne- 
groes after their liberation down to 1802, the time of the invasion 
of the island by Leclerc, I must now leave a blank of nearly two 
years, or till the year 1804. It cannot be expected during a war, in 
which every man was called to arms to defend his own personal 
liberty and that of his family, that we should see plantations cul- 
tivated as quietly as before, or even cultivated at all. But this 
was not the fault of the emancipated Negroes, but of their former 
masters. It was owing to the prejudices of the latter, that this 
frightful invasion took place ; prejudices, however, which are com-. 

mon 



26 

mon to almost all slave owners. Accustomed to the use of arbi- 
trary power, they could not brook the loss of their whips. Accus- 
tomed to look down upon the Negroes as an inferior race of beings, 
as mere reptiles of the earth, they could not bear, peaceably as 
these had conducted themselves, to come into that familiar contact 
with them, as free labourers, which the change of their situation 
required. They considered them, too, as property lost, but which 
was to be recovered. In an evil hour, they prevailed upon Buona- 
parte, by false representations and promises of pecuniary support, 
to undertake to restore things to their former state. The expedi- 
tion at length arrived upon the shores of St. Domingo : — a scene 
of blood and torture followed, such as history had seldom if ever 
before disclosed, and compared with which, though planned and 
executed by Whites*, all the barbarities said to have been perpe- 
trated by the insurgent Blacks of the Nor&h, amount comparatively 
to nothing. At length, however, the French were driven from the 
island. Till that time, the planters had retained their property, 
and then it was, and not till then, that they lost their all. It can- 
not be expected that I should have any thing to say of the industry 
or good order of the emancipated Negroes, during such a convul- 
sive period. 

In the year 1804, Dessalines was proclaimed emperor of this 
fine territory. In process of time a great part of the black troops 
were disbanded, and returned to cultivation. As they were free 
when they became soldiers, so they continued to be free when 
they became labourers again. From that time to this, there has 
been no want of subordination or industry among them. They or 
their descendants are the persons, by whom the plains and valleys 
of St. Domingo are still cultivated, and they are reported to follow 
their occupations still, and with as fair a character as other free 
labourers in any other quarter of the globe. 

We have now seen how the emancipated Negroes of St. Do- 
mingo have used their liberty, from the year 1793 (the era of their 
general emancipation) to the present day, a period of thirty years. 
An important question here seems to force itself upon us, " What 
were the measures taken, after so frightful an event as that of 
emancipation, to secure tranquillity and order, and to rescue the 
planters and the colony from ruin?" It appears, then, that the 
two commissioners, Santhonax and Polverel, aware of the mis- 
chief which might attend their decrees, took the best measures 



* The French troops were not the authors of tearing to pieces the Negroes 
alive by bloodhounds, or of suffocating them by hundreds at a time in the holds 
of ships, or of drowning them (whole cargoes) by scuttling and sinking the ves- 
sels j — but the planters. 

they 



27 

they could devise to prevent it. One of their first steps was to 
draw up a short code of rules to be observed upon the plantations. 
These rules were printed and made, public. They were also or- 
dered to be read aloud to nil the Negroes upon every estate, for 
which purpose they were to be assembled once a week. The 
preamble to these regulations insisted upon the necessity of in- 
dustry, without which every tiling would go to ruin. Among the 
rules, the two the most worthy of our notice were, that the la- 
bourers were to be obliged to hire themselves to the owner of an 
estate for not less than a year, at the end of which, but not before, 
they might quit his service, and engage with another : and that 
they were to receive a third part of the produce of the estate, as 
a recompense for their labour. These two were fundamental 
regulations. As to minor points, they were allowed to vary ac- 
cording to circumstances. This code subsisted for about three 
years. 

Toussaint, when he came into power, reconsidered the subject, 
and adopted a new code. His first object was to prevent oppres- 
sion on the part of the master or employer, and yet to secure 
obedience on the part of the labourer. Conceiving that there 
could be no liberty where any one man had the power of punish- 
ing another at his discretion, he took away from every master the 
use of the whip, and of the chain, and of every other instrument 
of correction, either by himself or his own order : he took away, 
in fact, all power of arbitrary punishment. Every master offend- 
ing against this regulation was to be summoned, on complaint by 
the labourer, before a magistrate or intendant of police, who was 
to examine into the case, and to act accordingly. Conceiving, on 
the other hand, that a just subordination ought to be maintained, 
and that, wherever delinquency occurred, punishment ought to 
follow, he ordained, that all labourers offending against the planta- 
tion police, or not performing their contracts, should be brought 
before the same magistrate, who should examine and decide as in 
the former case. Thus justice was administered without respect 
of persons. It must be noticed that all punishments were to be 
executed by a public officer, that they might be considered not as 
punishments by the master, but by the state. Thus he maintained 
due subordination on the plantations, without invading the liberty 
of individuals, and subjecting them to individual tyranny and 
caprice. 

Among plantation offences, idleness on the part of the labourer 
was one. A man was not to receive wages from his master, and 
to do nothing. He was obliged to perform a reasonable quantity 
of work, or be punished. Another offence was absence without 
leave, which was considered as desertion. 

Toussaint 



'28 

Toussaint differed from the commissioners, as to the length of 
time for which labourers should engage themselves to masters. 
He thought it unwise to allow the former, in the infancy of their 
liberty, to imbibe notions of change and rambling at the end of 
every year. He ordained, therefore, that they should be attached 
to particular plantations for five years, being thus made, though 
free labourers, a sort of adscript i glebce for that time. 

He differed again from the commissioners, as to the quantum of 
compensation for their labour. He thought one-third of the pro- 
duce too much, seeing that the planter had another third to pay to 
the Government. He assigned, "therefore, one-fourth to the Ja- 
bourer ; but this was in the case only, where the labourer clothed 
and maintained himself ; where he did not do this, the master was 
allowed to make a deduction for his expenses. 

The above is all I have been able to collect of the code of Tous- 
saint, which, under his government, had the surprising effect of 
preserving tranquillity and order, and keeping up a spirit of in- 
dustry on the plantations of St. Domingo, at: a time when only 
idleness and anarchy were to have been expected. It was in force 
when Leclerc arrived with his invading army, and it continued in 
force when the French army was beaten, and Negro-liberty con- 
firmed. From Toussaint it passed to Dessalines, and from Dessa- 
lines to Christophe and Petion, and from the two latter to Boyer ;- 
and it is the code which regulates, I believe with but very little 
variation, the relative situation of master and servant in husbandry 
at this present hour. 

But it is time that I should now wind up the case before us. 
And, first, will any one say that this case is not analogous to that 
which we have in view ? Let us remember that the number of 
slaves liberated by the French decrees in St. Domingo was little 
short of 500,000 persons, and that this was nearly equal to the 
aggregate of all the slaves then in the British West Indian Islands. 
But if there be a want of analogy, the difference is in my fa- 
vour. I maintain, that emancipation in St. Domingo was at- 
tended wither more hazard to persons and property, and with 
far greater difficulties, than it need be, if attempted in our own 
islands, Can we forget that by the decree of Polverel, sanctioned 
afterwards by the Convention, the slaves were made free at once, 
or in a single day P No notice was given of the event, and of 
course no preparation could be made for it. They were released 
suddenly from all their former obligations and restraints. They 
were let loose with all the vices of slavery upon them. What 
was to have been expected but the dissolution of all civilized so- 
ciety, with the reign of barbarism and terror ? Now, all I ask 
with respect to the slaves in our own islands is, that they should 

be 



29 

be emancipated by degrees, or that they should be made to pass 
through a certain course of discipline, as through a preparatory 
school, to fit them for the right use of their freedom. Again, can 
we forget the unfavourable circumstances, in which the slaves of 
St. Domingo were placed, for a year or two before their liberation, 
in another point of view ? The island at this juncture was a 
prey to political discord, civil war, and foreign invasion. The 
slave owners were politically at variance with each other, as they 
were white or coloured persons, or republicans, or royalists. They 
were quarreling and fighting with each other, and shedding each 
other's blood. The English,' at the same time, who were in pos- 
session of the strong maritime posts, were alarming the country 
by their incursions. The slaves, unfortunately, had been taught 
to imbibe the political animosities, and to take the side of their 
respective masters, and had been familiarised to scenes of violence 
and bloodshed. Now, whenever emancipation is to be proposed 
in our own colonies, I anticipate neither political parties, nor civil 
wars, nor foreign invasion, — but a time of tranquillity and peace. 
Who then will affirm, that there could be any thing like the danger 
and difficulties in emancipating the slaves there, which existed 
when the slaves of St. Domingo were made free ? But some ob- 
jector, after all, may say, " There is one point in which your 
analogy is deficient. While Toussaint was in power, the Go- 
vernment of St. Domingo was a black one, and the Blacks would 
be more willing to submit to the authority of a black Government 
than of a white one. Hence there were fewer disorders produced 
by emancipation in St. Domingo, than would probably occur in 
our own islands." But to such an objector, I should reply, that 
he knows nothing of the history of St. Domingo. The Govern- 
ment of that island was French, or white, from the very infancy of 
emancipation to the arrival of the expedition of Leclerc. The 
slaves were made free under the government of Sahthonax and 
Polverel. When these retired, other white commissioners suc- 
ceeded them. When Toussaint came into power, he was not 
supreme ; Generals Hedouille, Vincent, and others, had a share 
in the government. Toussaint himself received his commission 
from the French Directory, and acted under it. He caused it 
every where to be made known, but particularly among his officers 
and troops, that he retained the island for the French Government, 
and that France was the governing country. 

A sixth class of slaves emancipated in bodies may comprehend 
those, who began to be liberated about eighteen months ago in the 
newly-erected State of Columbia. General Bolivar began the 
great work by enfranchising his own slaves, to the number of be- 
tween seven and eight hundred. But he was not satisfied with 

this : 



30 

this; for believing, as he did, that to hold persons in slavery at 
all, was not only morally wrong, but utterly inconsistent with the 
character of men fighting for their own liberty, he brought the 
subject before the Congress of Venezuela. This Congress, after 
having duly considered it, drew up resolutions accordingly, which 
it recommended to the first general Congress of Columbia, then 
about to assemble. This last Congress passed a decree of eman- 
cipation on the 19th of July 1821. All slaves, and their number 
was considerable, who had assisted, in a military capacity, in 
achieving the independence of the republic, were at once declared 
free. All the children of slaves, born after the said 19th of July, 
were declared to be free : but in order to defray the expense of 
their early maintenance and education, were to serve their masters 
until they attained the eighteenth year of their age. A fund was 
established at the same time by a general tax upon property, for 
the purchase of the freedom of adults in each district every year, 
during the national festivals in December, care being taken to 
select those of the best character. It may be proper to observe, 
that emancipation has been proceeding regularly, from the 19th of 
July 1821, according to the terms of the above decree, and also 
according to the provisions of the ancient Spanish code, which 
still exist, and which powerfully co-operate with it. They who 
attain their eighteenth year are put under the charge of special 
juntas, in order to be properly disposed of, and placed in useful 
trades and professions, or other lines of life. The adults may 
have land, if they desire it, or they may go where they please. 
The State has lately purchased freedom for many of the latter, 
who had a liking to the army. Their freedom is secured to them 
whether they remain soldiers or are discharged. It is particularly 
agreeable to me to be able to say that all, who have been hitherto 
emancipated, have conducted themselves since that time with 
propriety. It appears by a letter from Columbia, dated 17th 
February 1822, about seven months after emancipation had com- 
menced, addressed to James Stephen, Esq. of London, and since 
made public, " that the slaves were all then peaceably at work 
throughout the republic, as well as the neivly enfranchised and 
those originally free." And it appears from the account of a gen- 
tleman of high consideration just arrived from Columbia, in Lon- 
don, that up to the time of his departure, they who had been 
emancipated " were steady and industrious, and that they had 
conducted themselves well without a s'mgle exception." But as 
this is an experiment which it will yet take sixteen years to com- 
plete, it can only be called to our aid, as far as the result of it is 
known. It is, however, an experiment to which, as far as it has 
been made, we may appeal with satisfaction : for when we con- 
sider 



31 

sider that eighteen months have elapsed, and that many* thousands 
had heen freed between the passing of the decree and the date of 
the last accounts from Columbia, the measure cannot but be con- 
sidered to have had a sufficient trial. 

The seventh class may comprehend the slaves of the Honourable 
Joshua Steele, whose emancipation was attempted in Barbadoes 
between the years 1783 and 1790. 

It appears that Mr. Steele lived in London. He was Vice-r 
president of the London Society of Arts, Manufactures., and Com- 
merce, and a person of talent and erudition. He was the proprietor 
of three estates in Barbadoes. His agent there used to send him 
accounts annually of his concerns; but these were latterly so 
ruinous, not only in a pecuniary point of view* but as thev related 
to what Mr. Steele called the destruction of his Negroes, that he 
resolved, though then at the advanced age of eighty, to go there, 
and to look into his affairs himself. Accordingly he embarked,, 
and arrived there early in the year 17S0. 

Mr. Steele had not been long in Barbadoes, before he saw 
enough to convince him that there was something radically wrpnsj 
in the management of the slaves, and he was anxious to trv, for 
the sake as well of humanity as of his own interest, to effect a re- 
form. But how was he to accomplish this f ? " He considered 
within himself how difficult it would be, nay, impossible, for a 
single proprietor to attempt so great a novelty as to bring about 
an alteration of manners and customs protected by iniquitous 
laws, and to which the gentlemen of the country were reconciled 
as to the best possible for amending the indocile and intractable 
ignorance of Negro slaves." It struck him, however, among the 
expedients which occurred, that he might be able to form a So- 
ciety, similar to that in London, for the purpose of improving the 
arts, manufactures, and commerce of Barbadoes; and if so, he 
" indulged a hope that by means of it conferences might be in- 
troduced on patriotic subjects, in the course of which new ideas 



* The slave population consisted at the time of passing the decree of from 
250,000 to 300,000 souls. 

f See Dr. Dickson's Mitigation of Slavery, London 1814, from whence 
every thing relating to this subject is taken. Dr. Dickson had been for many 
years secretary to Governor Hay, in Barbadoes, where he had an opportunity 
of studying the Slave agriculture as a system. Being in London afterwards 
when the Slave Trade controversy was going on in Parliament, he distinguished 
himself by silencing the different writers who defended the West Indian sla- 
very. There it was that Mr. Steele addressed himself to him by letter, and 
sent him those invaluable papers, which the Doctor afterwards published 
under the modest title of " Mitigation of Slavery by Steele and Dickson " 
No one was better qualified than Dr. Dickson to become the Editor of 
Mr. Steele. 

and 



32 

and new opinions might soften the national bigotry, ao far as to 
admit some discourses on the possibility of amendment in the 
mode of governing slaves." A Society was accordingly formed, 
of gentlemen of the Island in 1781. The subjects of its discussion 
became popular. It printed its first Minutes in 1782, which were 
very favourably received, and it seemed to bid fair to answer the 
benevolent views of its founder. 

* During this time, a space of two years, Mr. Steele had been 
gaining a practical knowledge of West Indian husbandry, and of 
the temper, disposition, habits, and customs of the slaves. He 
had also read much and thought much. It may be inferred from 
his writings, that three questions especially had employed his 
mind. I. Whether he could not do away all arbitrary punish- 
ments and yet keep up discipline among the slaves ? 2. Whether 
he could not carry on the plantation-work through the stimulus of 
reward ? 3. Whether he could not change slavery into a condi- 
tion of a milder name and character, so that the slaves should be 
led by degrees to the threshold of liberty, from whence they might 
step next, without hazard, into the rank of free men, if circum- 
stances should permit and encourage such a procedure? Mr. 
Steele conceived, after mature consideration, that he could accom- 
plish these objects, and he resolved to make the experiment gra- 
dually upon his own estates. 

At the end of the year 1783, he put the first of these questions 
to the test. " I took," says he, '' the whips and all power of ar- 
bitrary punishment from all the overseers and their white servants, 
which occasioned my chief overseer to resign, and I soon dismissed 
all his deputies, who could not bear the Loss of their whips; but 
at the same time, that a proper subordination and obedience to 
lawful orders and duty should be preserved, I created a magis- 
tracy out of the Negroes themselves, arid appointed a court or 
jury of the elder Negroes or head-men for trial and punishment 
of all casual offences, (and these courts were always to be held 
in my presence, or in that of my new superintendant,) which 
court very soon grew respectable. Seven of these men being of 
the rank of drivers in their different departments, were also con- 
stituted rulers, or magistrates over all the gang, and were charged 
to see at all times that nothing should go wrong in the planta- 
tions ; but that on all necessary occasions they should assemble 
and consult together how any such wrong should be immediately 
rectified ; and I made it known to all the gangs, that the authority 
of these rulers should supply the absence or vacancy of an over- 
seer in all cases ; they making daily or occasional reports of all 
occurrences to the proprietor or his delegate for his approbation 
or his orders." / 

It 



33 

It appears that Mr. Steele was satisfied witli this his first step, 
and he took no other for some time. At length, in ahout another 
year, he ventured upon the second. He " tried whether he could 
not obtain the labour of his Negroes by voluntary means instead 
of the old method by violence." On a certain day he offered a 
pecuniary reward for holing canes, which is the most laborious 
operation in West Indian husbandry. " He offered two-pence 
halfpenny (currency )j or about thee-halfpence (sterling), per day, 
with the usual allowance to holers of a dram with molasses, to 
any twenty-five of his negroes, both men and women, who would 
undertake to hole for canes an acre per day, at about 96y holes 
for each Negro to the acre. The whole gang were ready to un- 
dertake it ; but only fifty of the volunteers were accepted, and 
many among them were those who on muck tighter occasions had 
usually pleaded infirmity and inability : but the ground having 
been moist, they holed twelve acres within six days with great 
ease, having had an hour, more or less, every evening to spare; and 
the like experiment was repeated with the like success. More ex- 
periments with such premiums on weeding and deep hoeing were 
made by task^work per acre, and all succeeded in like manner, 
their premiums being all punctually paid them in proportion to 
their performance. But afterwards some of the same people being 
put without premium to weed on a loose cultivated soil in the com- 
mon manner, eighteen Negroes did not do as much in a given time 
as six had performed of the like sort of work a few days before with 
the premium of two-pence halfpenny." The next year Mr. 
Steele made similar experiments. Success attended him again ; 
and from this time task-work, or the voluntary system, became the 
general practice of the estate. 

Mr. Steele did not proceed to put the third question to trial till 
the year 1789. The Society of Arts, which he had instituted in 
1781, had greatly disappointed him. Some of the members, 
looking back to the discussions which had taken place on the sub- 
ject of Slavery, began to think that they had gone too far as slave- 
holders in their admissions. They began to insinuate, " that they 
had been taken in, under the specious appearance of promoting 
the arts, manufactures, and commerce of Barbadoes, to promote 
dangerous designs against its established laws and customs." Dis- 
cussions therefore of this sort became too unpopular to be con- 
tinued. It was therefore not till Mr. Steele found, that he had no 
hope of assistance from this Society, and that he was obliged to 
depend solely upon himself, that he put in force the remainder of 
his general plan. He had already, in 1783, abolished arbitrary 
punishment and instituted a Negro-magistracy : and since that 
time (in 1785) he had adopted the system of working by the 

■» pieee. 



34 

piece, But the remaining part of his, plan went the length of 
altering the very condition of the slaves ; and it is of this al- 
teration, a most important one (in 1789), that I am now to 
speak. 

Mr. Steele took the hint for the particular mode of improving 
the condition of his slaves, which I am going to describe, from 
the practice of our Anglo-Saxon ancestors in the days of Vil- 
leinage, which, he says, was " the most wise and excellent mode 
of civilizing savage slaves." There were in those days three classes 
of villeins. The first or lowest consisted of villeins in gross, who 
were alienable at pleasure. The second of villeins regardant, who 
were adscripti glehce, or attached as freehold property to the soil. 
And the third or last, of copyhold bondmen, who had tenements 
of land, for which they were bound to pay in services. The vil- 
leins first mentioned, or those of the lowest class, had all these gra- 
dations to pass through, from the first into the second, and from* 
the second into the third, before they could become free men. 
This was the model, from which Mr. Steele resolved to borrow, 
when he formed his plan for changing the condition of his slaves. 
He did not, however, adopt it throughout, but he chose out of it 
what he thought would be most suitable to his purpose, and left 
the rest. We may see what the plan was, from the following ac- 
count. 

In the year 1789 he erected his plantations into manors. It 
appears that the Governor of Barbadoes had the power by charter, 
with the consent of the majority of the council, of dividing the 
island into manors, lordships, and precincts, and of making free- 
holders ; and though this had not yet been done, Mr. Steele hoped, 
as a member of council, to have influence sufficient to get his own 
practice legalized in time. Presuming upon this, he registered in 
the manor-book all his adult male slaves as copyholders. He then 
gave them separate tenements of lands, which they were to oc- 
cupy, and upon which they were to raise whatever they might 
think most advantageous. These tenements consisted of half an 
acre of plantable and productive land to each adult, a quantity 
supposed to be sufficient with industry to furnish him and his fa- 
mily with provision and clothing. The tenements were made 
descendible to the heirs of the occupiers or copyholders, that is, 
to their children on the plantations ; for no part of the succession 
-was to go out of the plantations to the issue of any foreign wife, 
and, in case of no such heirs, they were to fall in to the lord to be 
re-granted according to his discretion. It was also inscribed that 
any one of the copyholders, who would not perform his services 
to the manor (the refractory and others)', was to forfeit his tene- 
ment and his privileged rank, and to go back to the state of villein 

in 



35 

in gross, and to be subject to corporal punishment as before. 
* e Thus," says Mr. Steele, " we run no risk whatever in making 
the experiment by giving such copyhold-tenements to all our well- 
deserving Negroes, and to all in general, when they appear to be 
worthy of that favour." 

Matters having been adjusted so far, Mr. Steele introduced the 
practice of rent and wages. He put an annual rent upon each 
tenement, which he valued at so many days' labour. He set a 
rent also upon personal service, as due by the copyholder to his 
master in his former quality of slave, seeing that his master or pre- 
decessor had purchased a property in him, and this he valued in 
the same manner. He then added the two rents together, making 
so many days' work altogether, and estimated them in the current 
money of the time. Having done this, he fixed the daily wages or 
pay to be received by the copyholders for the work which they 
were to do. They were to work 260 days in the year for him, 
and to have 48 besides Sundays for themselves. He reduced 
these days' work also to current money. These wages he fixed 
at such a rate, that " they should he more than equivalent to the 
rent of their copyholds and the rent of their personal services when 
put together, in order to hold out to them an evident and profit- 
able incentive to their industry." It appears that the rent of the 
tenement, half an acre, was fixed at the rate of 31. currency, or 
between forty and fifty shillings sterling per acre, and the wages 
for a man belonging to the first gang at 7±d. currency or 6d. ster- 
ling per day. As to the rent for the personal services, it is not 
mentioned. 

With respect to labour and things connected with it, Mr. Steele 
entered the following among the local laws in the court-roll of the 
tenants and tenements.- The- copyholders were not to work for 
other masters without the leave of the lord. They were to work 
ten hours per day. If they worked over and above that time, they 
were to be paid for every hour a tenth part of their daily wages, 
and they were also to forfeit a tenth for every hour they were ab- 
sent or deficient in the work of the day. AH sorts of work, how- 
ever, were to be reduced, as far as it could be done by observa- 
tion and estimation, to equitable task- work. Hoes were to be 
furnished to the copyholders in the first instance; but they were to 
renew them, when worn out, at their own expense. The other 
tools were to be lent them, but to be returned to the store-keeper 
at night, or to be paid for in default of so doing. Mr. Steele was 
to continue the hospital and medical attendance at his own expense 
as before. 

Mr. Steele, having now rent to receive and wages to pay, was 
obliged to settle a new mode of accounting between the plantation 

D 2 and 



36 

and the labourers. "He brought, therefore, all the minor crops 
of the plantation, such as corn, grain of all sorts, yams, eddoes, 
besides rum and molasses, into a regular cash account by weight 
and measure, which he charged to the copyhold-storekeeper at' 
market prices of the current time, and the storekeeper paid them 
at the same prices to such of the copyholders as called for them in 
part of wages, in whose option it was to take either cash or goods, 
according to their earnings, to answer all their wants. Rice, salt, 
salt fish, barrelled pork, Cork butter, flour, bread, biscuit, candles, 
tobacco and pipes, and all species of clothing, were provided and 
furnished from the store at the lowest market prices. An account 
of what was paid for daily subsistence, and of what stood in thei 
arrears to answer the rents of their lands, the fines and forfeitures 
for delinquencies, their head-levy, and all other casual demands, 
was accurately kept in columns with great simplicity, and in books, 
which checked each other." 

Such was the plan of Mr. Steele, and I have the pleasure of 
being able to announce, that the result of it was highly satisfactory 
to himself. In the year 1788, when only the first and second part 
of it had been reduced to practice,, he spoke of it thus : — '? A plan- 
tation," savs he, " of between seven and eight hundred acres has 
been governed by fixed laws and a Negro-couf tfor about Jive years 
with great success. In this plantation no overseer or white servant 
is allowed to lift his hand against a Negro, nor can he arbitrarily 
order a punishment. Fixed laws and a court or jury of their peers 
keep all in order without the ill effect of sudden and intemperate 
passions." And in the year 1790, about a year after the last part 
of his plan had been put to trial, he says in a letter to Dr. Dickson, 
li My copyholders have succeeded beyond my expectation." This 
was his last letter to that gentleman, fox he died in the beginning 
of the next year. Mr. Steele went over to Barbadoes, as I have 
said before, in the year 1780, and he was then in the eightieth 
year of his age. He began his humane and glorious work in 1783, 
and he finished it in 1789. It took him, therefore, six years to 
bring his Negroes to the state of vassalage described, or to that 
state from whence he was sure that they might be transferred with- 
out danger, in no distant time, to the rank of freemen, if it should 
be thought desirable. He lived one year afterwards to witness 
the success of his labours. He had accomplished, therefore, all 
he wished, and he died in the year 1791, in the ninety-first year of 
his age. , 

It may be proper now, and indeed useful to the cause which I 
advocate, to stop for a moment, just to observe the similarity of 
sentiment of two-great men, quite unknown to each other ; on e of 
whom (Mr. Steele) was concerned in preparing Negro-slaves for 

freedom. 



37 

freedom, and the other (Toussaint) in devising the best mode of 
managing them after they had been suddenly made free. 

It appears, first, that they were both agreed in this point, viz. 
that the first step to be taken in either case, was the total abolition 
of arbitrary punishment. 

It appears, secondly, that they were nevertheless both agreed 
again as to the necessity of punishing delinquents, but that they 
adopted different ways of bringing them to justice. Toussaint re- 
ferred them to magistrates, but Mr. Steele to a Negro-court. I 
should prefer the latter expedient ; first, because a Negro-court may 
be always at hand, whereas magistrates may live at a distance from 
the plantations, and not be always at home. Secondly, because 
the holding of a Negro-court would give consequence to those Ne- 
groes who should compose it, not only in their own eyes but in the 
eyes of others ; and everything, that might elevate the Black cha- 
racter, would be useful to those who were on- the road to emanci- 
pation ; and, lastly, because there must be something satisfactory 
and consoling to the accused to be tried by their peers. 

It appears, thirdly, that both of them were agreed again in the 
principle of making the Negroes, in either case, adscripti glebce, or 
attached to the soil, though they might differ as to the length of 
time of such ascription. 

And it appears, lastly, that they were agreed in another, and this 
the only remaining point, viz. on the necessity of holding out a 
stimulus to either, so as to excite in them a very superior spirit of 
industry to any they had known before. They resorted, however, 
to different means to effect this. Toussaint gave the labourers one 
fourth of the produce of the land, deducting their personal ex- 
penses. Mr. Steele, on the other hand, gave them daily wages. 
The plan of Mr. Steele seems most consonant to sound principle 
and to the English practice. 

But to return. It is possible that some objector may argue 
thus : — "The case of Mr. Steele is not a complete precedent, be- 
cause his slaves were never folly emancipated. He had brought 
them only to the threshold of liberty, but no further. They were 
only copyholders, but not free men" To this I reply, first, That 
Mr. Steele accomplished all that he ever aimed at. I have his 
own words for saying, that so long as the present iniquitous slave 
laws, and the distinction of colour, should exist, it would be im- 
prudent to go further. I reply again, That the partizans of eman- 
cipation would be happy indeed, if they could see the day when 
our West Indian slaves should arrive at the rank and condition of 
the copvholders of Mr. Steele. The freedom which they desire 
they believe to be compatible with the joint interest of the master 
and the siave, At the same time they maintain, that the copy- 
holders 



. 38 

holders of Mr. Steele had been brought so near to the condition 
of free men, that a removal from one into the other, after a certain 
time, seemed more like a thing of course than a matter to be at- 
tended either with difficulty or danger. Their moral character 
must have improved. If they had ceased for seven years to feel 
themselves degraded by arbitrary punishment, they must have ac- 
quired some little independence of mind. If they had been paid 
for their labour,, they must have acquired something like a spirit of 
industry. If they had been made to pay rent for their cottage and 
land, and to maintain themselves, they must have been made to 
look beforehand, to think jot themselves and families from day to 
day, and to provide against the future ; all which operations of the 
mind are the characteristics only of free men. The case, therefore, 
of Mr. Steele is most important and precious : for it shows us, 
first, that the emancipation, which we seek, is a thing which may 
he effected. The plan of Mr. Steele was put in force in a British 
Island, and that, which was done in one British Island, may, under 
similar circumstances, be done again in the same, as well as in an- 
other. It shows us, too, how this emancipation maybe brought 
about. The process is so clearly detailed, that any one may fol- 
low it. It is also a case, for encouragement, inasmuch as it was 
attended with success. 

I have now considered no less than six cases of slaves emanci- 
pated in bodies, and a seventh, of slaves who were led up to the 
very threshold of freedom, comprehending altogether not less than 
between five and six hundred thousand persons j and I have con- 
sidered also all the objections that could be reasonably advanced 
against them. The result is a belief on my part, that emancipa- 
tion 'is not only practicable, but that it is practicable without 
danger. The slaves, whose cases I have been considering, were 
resident in different parts of the world. There must have been, 
amongst such a vast number, persons of all characters. Some 
were liberated, who had been accustomed to the use of arms £ 
others at a time when the land in which they sojourned was af- 
flicted with civil and foreign warn ; others again suddenly, and 
with all the vicious habits of slavery upon them. And yet, under 
all these disadvantageous circumstances, I find them all, without 
exception, yielding themselves to the will of their superiors, so as 
to be brought by them with as much ease and certainty into the 
form intended for them, as clay in the hands of the potter is fa- 
shioned to his own model. But, if this be so, I think I should be 
chargeable with a want of common sense, were I to doubt for a 
moment, that emancipation was -practicable ; and I am not sure 
that I should not be exposed to the same charge, were I to doubt, 
that emancipation was practicable without danger. For I have 

not 



39 

not been able to discover (and it is most remarkable) a single 
failure in any of the cases which have been produced. I have 
not heard throughout this vast mass of emancipated persons of a 
single instance of bad behaviour, not even of a refusal to work, or 
of disobedience to orders. Much less have I heard of frightful 
commotions, or massacres, or of revenge for past iujuries, even 
when they had it amply in their power. In fact, the Negro cha- 
racter is malleable at the European will. There is, as I have ob- 
served before, a singular pliability in the constitutional temper of 
the Negroes, and they have besides a quick sense of their own in- 
terest, which influences their conduct. I am convinced, that 
West India masters may do what they will with their slaves; and 
that they may lead them through any changes they please, and 
with perfect safety to themselves, if they will only make the slaves 
understand that they are to be benefited thereby. 

Having now established, I hope, two of my points, — first, that 
emancipation is practicable, and, secondly, that it is practicable 
without danger, — I proceed to show the probability that it would 
be attended with profit to those planters who should adopt it. I 
return, therefore, to the case of Mr. Steele. 

I shall begin by quoting the following expressions of Mr. 
Steele : <f I have employed and amused myself," says he, " by 
introducing an entire new •mode of governing my own slaves, for 
their happiness, and also for my own profit." It appears then, 
that Mr. Steele's new method of management was profitable. Let 
us now try to make out from his own account, of what these profits 
consisted. 

Mr. Steele informs us, that his superintendant had obliged him 
to hire all his holing at 31. currency, or 21. 2s. lOd. sterling, per, 
acre. Ho was very much displeased at these repeated charges ; 
and then it was, that he put to trial, as I have before related, the 
question whether he could not obtain the labour of his Negroes 
by voluntary means/ instead of by the old method of violence. 
He made, therefore, an attempt to introduce task-work, or labour, 
with a promised premium for extraordinary efforts, upon his estates. 
He gave his Negroes a small pecuniary reward over and above 
the usual allowances, and the consequence was, as he himself 
says, that " the poorest, feeblest, and by character the most indolent 
Negroes of the whole gang, cheerfully performed the holing of his 
land, generally said to be the most laborious work, for less than a 
fourth part of the stated price paid to the undertakers for holing." 
This experiment I have detailed above. After this he continued 
the practice of task-work for a premium. He describes the opera- 
tion of such a system upon the minds of his Negroes in the fol- 
lowing wor'ds : " According to the vulgar mode of governing 

Negro- 



•10 

Negro-slaves, they feel only the desponding fear of punishment for 
doing less than they ought, without being sensible that the settled 
allowance of food and clothing is given, and should be accepted, 
as a reward for doing well, while in task-work the expectation of 
winning the reward, and the fear of losing it, have a double opera- 
tion to exert their endeavours." Mr. Steele was benefited in an- 
other point of view by this new practice. " He was clearly con- 
vinced, that saving time, by doing in one. day as much as would 
otherwise require three days, was worth more than double the pre- 
tnium, the timely effects on vegetation being critical." He found 
also to his satisfaction, that " during all the operations under the 
premium there were no disorders, no crowding to the sick- house, as 
before." 

This account shows clearly how Mr. Steele made a part of his 
profits. These profits consisted first of a saving of expense in his 
husbandry, which saving was not made by others. He had his 
land holed at one-fourth of the usual rent. Let us apply this to 
all the other operations of husbandry, such as weeding, deep 
hoeing, &c. in a large farm of nearly eight hundred acres, and we 
shall see how considerable the savings would be in one year. His 
Negroes again did not counterfeit sickness as before, in order to 
be excused from labour, but rather wished to labour in order to 
obtain the reward. There was, therefore, no crowding to the 
hospitals. This constituted a second source of saving ; for they 
who were in the hospitals were maintained by Mr. Steele without 
earning any thing, while they who were working in the field left 
to their master in their work, when they went home at night, a 
value superior to that which they had received from him for their 
day's labour. But there was another saving of equal importance, 
which Mr. Steele calls a saving of time, but which he might with 
more propriety have called a saving of season. This saving of 
season, he says, was worth more than double the premium ; and so 
it might easily have been. There are soils, every farmer knows, 
which are so constituted, that if you miss your day, you miss your 
season ; and, if you miss your season, you lose probably half your 
crop. The saving, therefore, of the season, by having a whole 
crop instead of half a one, was a third source of saving of money. 
Now let us put all these savings together, and they will constitute 
a great saving or profit ; for as these savings were made by Mr. 
Steele in consequenee of his new plan, and were therefore not made 
by others, they constituted an extraordinary profit to him ; or they 
added to the profit, whatever it might have been, which he used 
to receive from the estate before his new plan was put in exe- 
cution. 

But I discover other ways in which Mr. Steele was benefited, 

as 



as 1 advance in the perusal of his writings. It is impossible to 
overlook the following passage : " Now," says he (alluding to lm 
new system), " every species of provisions raised on the plantations, 
or bought from the merchants, is charged at the market-price to 
the copyhold-store, and discharged by what has been paid on the 
several accounts of every individual bond-slave ; whereas for all 
those species heretofore, I never saw in any plantation-book of my 
estates any account of what became of them, or how they were 
disposed of, nor of their value, other than in these concise words, 
they were given in allowance to the Negroes and stock. Every year, 
for six years past, this great plantation has bought several hundred 
bushels of corn, and was scanty in all ground-provisions, our pro- 
duce always falling short. This year, 1790, since the establishment 
of copyholders, though several acres less were planted last year in 
Guinea corn than usual, yet we have been able to sell several hun- 
dred bushels at a high price, and we have still a great slock in hand. 
I can place this saving to no other account/ than that there is now 
an exact account kept by all produce being paid as cash to the 
bond-slaves ; and also as all our watchmen are obliged to pay for all 
losses that happen on their watch, they have found it their interest 
to look well to their charge ; and consequently that we have had much 
less stolen from us than before this new government took place." 

Here then we have seen another considerable source of saving 
to Mr. Steele, namely, that he was not obliged to purchase any corn 
for his slaves as formerly. My readers will be able to judge bet- 
ter of this saving, when I inform them of what has been the 
wretched policy o"f many of our planters in this department of their 
concerns. Look over their farming memoranda, and you will see 
sugar, sugar, sugar, in everv page ; but you may turn over leaf 
after leaf, before you will find the words provision grounds. By 
means of this wretched policy, slaves have often suffered most grie- 
vously. Some of them have been half-starved. Starvation, too, 
has brought on disorders which have ultimately terminated in then- 
death. Hence their masters have suffered losses, besides the ex- 
pense incurred in buying what they ought to have raised upon 
their own estates, and this perhaps at a dear market : and in this 
wretched predicament Mr. Steele appears to have been placed 
when he first went to Barbadoes. His slaves, he tells us, had 
been reduced in number by bad management. Even for six years 
afterwards he had been obliged to buy several hundred bushels of 
corn : but in the year 1790 he had sold several hundred bushels 
at a high price, and had still a great stock on hand. And to what 
was all this owing ? Not to an exact account kept at the store 
(for some may have so misunderstood Mr. Steele) ; for how could 
an exact account kept there, have occasioned an increase in the 

produce 



42 ,"."•; 

produce of the earth ? but, as Mr. Steele himself says, to the esta- 
blishment of his copy holders,,, to the alteration of the condition of 
his slaves. His slaves did not only three times more work than 
before, in consequence of the superior industry he had excited 
among them ; but by so doing, they were enabled to put the corn 
into the earth three times more quickly than before, or they were 
so much forwarder in their other work, that they were enabled to 
sow it at the critical moment,/ or so as to save the seaso?i 3 and thus 
secure a full crop, or a larger crop on a less number of acres, than 
was before raised upon a greater. The copyholders, therefore, 
we«re the persons who increased the produce of the earth ; but the 
exact account kept at the store prevented the produce from being 
misapplied as formerly. It could no longer be put down in the 
general expression of " given in allowances to the Negroes and the 
stock;" but it was put <lowu to the copyholder, and to him only, 
who received it. Thus Mr. Steele saved the purchase cf a great 
part of the provisions for his slaves. He had formerly a great deal 
to buy for them, but now nothing. On the contrary, he had to 
sell ; and, as his slaves were made, according to the new system, 
to maintain themselves, he had now the whole produce of his estate to 
dispose of. The circumstance therefore of having nothing to buy, 
but every thing to sell, constituted another source of his profits. 

What the other particular profits of Mr. Steele were I can no 
where find, neither can I find what were his particular expenses ; 
so as to be enabled to strike the balance in his favour. Happily, 
however, Mr. Steele has done this for us himself, though he has 
not furnished us with the items on either side. — He says that " from 
the year 1773 to 1779 (he arrived in Barbadoes in 1780), his stock 
had been so much reduced by ill management -and wasteful eco- 
nomy, that the animal average net clearance was little more than 
one and a quarter per cent, on the purchase. In a second period 
of four years, in consequence of the exertion of an honest and able 
manager, (though with a further reduction of the stock, and includ- 
ing the loss from the great hurricane,) the annual average income 
was brought to clear a little above two per cent* ; but in a third pe- 
riod of three years, from 1784 to 1786 inclusive, since the new mode 
of governing the Negroes, (besides increasing the stock and laving 
out large sums annually in adding necessary works, and in repairs 
of the damages by the great hurricane,) the estate has cleared very 
near four and a quarter per cent. ; that is, its annual average clear- 
ance in each of these three periods, was in this proportion ; for 
every 100/. annually cleared in the first period the annual average 
clearance in the second period was 158/. IQs., and in the third pe- 
riod was 3451. 6s. 8d." This is the statement given by Mr. Steele, 
and a most important one it is 3 for if we compare what the estate 

had 



43 

had cleared in the first, with what it had cleared in the last of thcso 
periods, and have recourse to figures, we shall find that Mr. Steele 
had more than tripled the income of it, in consequence of his new 
management, during his residence in Barbadoes. And this is in 
fact what he says himself in words at full length, in his answer to 
the 17th question proposed to him by the Committee of the Privy- 
council on the affairs of the slave trade. i( In a plantation," says he, 
" of 200 slaves in June 17S0, consisting of 90 men, 82 women, 56 
boys, and 60 girls, though under the exertions of an able and ho- 
nest manager, there were only 15 births, and no less than 57 deaths, 
in three years and three months. An alteration was made in the 
mode of governing the slaves. The whips were taken from all the 
white servants. All arbitrary punishments were abolished, and all 
offences were tried and sentence passed by a Negro court. In four 
years and three months after this change of government, there were 
44 births, and only 41 deaths, of which ten deaths were of super- 
annuated men and women, some above 80 years old. But in the 
same interval the annual net clearance of the estate was above three 
limes more than it had been for ten years before ! ! !" 

Dr. Dickson, the editor of Mr. Steele, mentions these profits 
also, and in the same terms, and connects them with an eulogium 
on Mr. Steele, which is worthy of our attention. " Mr. Steele," 
says he, " saw that the Negroes, like all other human beings, were 
to be stimulated to permanent exertion only by a sense of their own 
interests in providing for their own wants and those of their off- 
spring. He therefore tried rewards, which immediately roused the 
most indolent to exertion. His experiments ended in regular wages, 
which the industry he had excited among his whole gang enabled 
him to pay. Here was a natural, efficient, and profitable reciprocity 
of interests. His people became contented ; his mind was freed 
from that perpetual vexation, and that load of anxiety, which are 
inseparable from the vulgar system, and in little more than four 
years the annual net clearance of his property ivas more than tri- 
pled" Again in another part of the work, " Mr. Steele's plan may 
no doubt receive some improvements, which his great age obliged 
him to decline " — " but it is perfect as far as it goes. To advance 
above 300 Jie id-negroes, who had never before moved without the 
whip, to a stale nearly resembling that of contented, honest, and in- 
dustrious servants, and, after paying for their labour, to triple in cl 
few years the annual net clearance of the estate, — these, I say, were 
great achievements for an aged man in an untried field of improve- 
ment, pre-occupied by inveterate vulgar prejudice. He has indeed 
accomplished all that was really doubtful or difficult in the under- 
taking, and perhaps all that is at present desirable either for owner 
or slave \ for he has ascertained as a fact, what was before only 

known 



44 

known to the learned as a theory, and to practical men as a para- 
dox, that the paying of slaves for their labour does actually produce 
a very great profit to their owners." 

I have now proved (as far as the plan* of Mr. Steele is con- 
cerned) my third proposition, or the probability that emancipation 
ivould promote the interests of those who should adopt it ; hut as I 
know of no other estate similarly circumstanced with that of Mr. 
Steele, that is, where emancipation has been tried, and where a de- 
tailed result of it has been made known, I cannot confirm it by 
other similar examples. I must have recourse, therefore, to some 
Hew species of proof. Now it is an old maxim, as old as the days 
of Pliny and Columella, and confirmed by Dr. Adam Smith, and 
all the modern writers on political economy, that the labour of free 
men is cheaper than the labour of slaves. If therefore I should 
be able to show that this maxim would be true if applied to all the 
operations and demands of West Indian agriculture, I should be 
able to establish my proposition on a new ground : for it requires 
no great acuteness to infer, that, if it be cheaper to employ free 
men than slaves in the cultivation of our islands, emancipation 
would be a profitable process. 

I shall show, then, that the old maxim just mentioned is true, 
when applied to the case in our own islands, first, by establishing 
the fact that free men, people of colour, in the East Indies, are 
employed in precisely the same concerns (the cultivation of the cane 
and the making of sugar) as the slaves in the West, and that they 
are employed at a cheaper rate. The testimony of Henry Botham, 
Esq. will be quite sufficient for this point. That gentleman resi- 
ded for some time in the East Indies, where he became acquainted 
with the business of a sugar estate. In the year 1770 he quitted 
the East for the West. His object was to settle in the latter part 
of the world, if it should be found desirable so to do. For this 
purpose he visited all the West Indian islands, both English and 
French, in about two years. He became during this time a planter, 
though he did not continue long in this situation ; and he superin- 
tended also Messrs. Bosanquets' and J. Fatio's sugar-plantation 
in their partners' absence. Finding at length the unprofitable way 
in which the West Indian planters conducted their concerns, he 
returned to the East Indies in 1776, and established sugar-works 

* It is much to be feared that this beautiful order of things was broken up 
after Mr. Steele's death by his successors, either through their own prejudices, 
or their unwillingness or inability to stand against the scoffs and prejudices of 
others. It may be happy, however, for thousands now in slavery, that Mr. 
Steele lived to accomplish his plan. The constituent parts and result of it 
being known, a fine example is shown to those who may be desirous of trying 
emancipation., 

at 



4f> 

at Bencoolen on his own account. Being in London in the year 
17^y, when a committee of privy council was sitting to examine 
into the question of the slave trade, he delivered a paper to the 
hoard on the mode of cultivating a sugar plantation in the East In- 
dies ; and this paper being thought of great importance, he was 
summoned afterwards in 1791 by a committee of the House of 
Commons, and was examined personally upon it. 

It is very remarkable that the very first sentence in this paper 
announced the fact at once, that " sugar, better and cheaper than 
that in the West Indian islands, was produced by free men." 

Mr. Both am then explained the simple process of making sugar 
in the East. " A proprietor, generally a Dutchman, used to let 
his estate, sav 300 acres or more, with proper buildings upon it, 
to a Chinese, who lived upon it and superintended it, and who re- 
let it to free men in parcels of 50 or 60 acres, on condition that they 
should plant it in canes for so much for every pecul, 133Ibs., of 
sugar produced. This superintendant hired people from the ad- 
jacent villages to take off his crop. One lot of task-men with their 
carts and buffaloes cut the canes, carried them to the mill, and 
ground them. A second set boiled them, and a third clayed and 
basketed them for market at so much per pecul. Thus the renter 
knew with certainty what every pecul would cost him, and he in- 
curred no unnecessary expense ; for, when the crop was over, the 
task-men returned home. By dividing the labour in this manner, 
it was better and cheaper done." 

Mr. Botham detailed next the improved method of making sugar 
in Batavia, which we have not room to insert here. We may just 
state, however, that the persons concerned in it never made spirits 
on the sugar estates. The molasses and skimmings were sent for 
sale to Batavia, where one distillery might buy the produce of a 
hundred estates. Here, again, was a vast saving, says Mr. Botham, 
" there was not, as in the West Indies, a distillery for each, 
estate." 

He then proceeded to make a comparison between the agricul- 
tural system of the two countries. "The cane was cultivated to 
the utmost perfection in Batavia, whereas the culture of it in the 
West Indies was but in its infancy. The hoe was scarcely used in 
the East, whereas it was almost the sole implement in the West. 
The plough was used instead of it in the East, as far as it could be 
done. Young canes there were kept also often ploughed as a weed- 
. ing, and the hoe was kept to weed round the plant when very 
young ; but of this there was little need, if the land had been suffi- 
ciently ploughed. When the cane was ready to be earthed up, it 
was done by a sort of shovel made for the purpose. Two persons 
with this instrument would earth up more canes in a day than ten 

Negroes 



46 

Negroes with hoes. The cane-roots were also ploughed up in the 
East, whereas they were dug up with the severest exertion in the 
West. Many alterations," says Mr. Botham, " are to be made, 
and expenses and human labour lessened in the West. Having 
experienced the difference of labourers for profit and labourers from 
force, I can assert, that the savings by the former are very consider- 
able." 

He then pointed out other defects in the West Indian manage- 
ment, and their remedies. " I am of opinion/' says he, " that the 
West Indian planter should for his own interest give more labour 
to beast and less to man. A larger portion of his estate ought to 
be in pasture. When practicable, canes should be carried to the 
mill, and cane-tops and grass to the stock, in waggons. The cus- 
tom of making a hard-worked Negro get a bundle of grass twice 
a day should be abolished, and in short a total change take place in 
the miserable management in our West Indian Islands. By these 
means following as near as possible the East Indian mode, and con- 
solidating the distilleries, 1 do suppose our sugar-islands, might be 
better worked than they now are by two- thirds or indeed one-half 
of the present force. Let it be considered how much labour is lost 
by the persons overseeing the forced labourer, which is saved when 
he works for his own profit. I have stated with the strictest vera- 
city a plain matter of fact, that sugar-estates can be worked cheaper 
ly free men than by slaves*." 

I shall now show, that the old maxim, which has been men- 
tioned, is true, when applied to the case of our West Indian islands, 
by establishing a fact of a very different kind, viz. that the slaves in 
the West Indies do much more work in a given time when they 
work for themselves, than when they work for their masters. But 
how, it will be said, do you prove, by establishing this fact, that it 
would be cheaper for our planters to employ free men than slaves ? 
I answer, that, while the slaves are working for themselves, they are 
to be considered, indeed that they are, bond fide, free labourers. In 
the first place, they have no driver with them on these occasions ; 
and, in the second place, having all their earnings to themselves, 
they have that stimulus within them to excite industry which be- 
longs peculiarly to free men. What is it, I ask, which gives birth 
to-industry in any part of the world, seeing that labour is not agree- 
able to man, but the stimulus arising from the hope of gain ? 
What makes an English labourer do more work in the day than a 

* Mr. Botham's account is confirmed incontrovertibly by the fact, that sugar 
made in the East Indies can be brought to England (though it has three times 
the distance to come, and of course three times the freight to pay), and yet be 
afforded to the consumer at as cheap a rate as any that can be brought tbither 
from the West. 

slave, 



47 

slave, but the stimulus arising from the knowledge that what he 
earns \s for himself and not fur another ? What, again, makes an 
English labourer do much more work by the piece than by the day, 
but the stimulus arising from the knowledge that he may gain 
more by the former than by the latter mode of work ? just so is 
the West Indian slave situated, when he is working for himself 
that is, when he knows that what he earns is for his ovm use. He 
has then the stimulus of a free man, and he is, therefore, during 
such work (though unhappily no longer) really, and in effect, and 
to all intents and purposes, as much a free labourer as any person 
in any part of the globe. But if he be a free man, while he is 
working for himself, and if in that capacity he does twice or thrice 
more work than when he works for his master, it follows, that it 
would be cheaper for his master to employ him as a free labourer, 
or that the labour of free men in the West Indies would be cheaper 
than the labour of slaves. 

That West Indian slaves, when they work for themselves, do 
much more in a given time than when they work for their masters, 
is a fact so notorious in the West Indies, that no one who has 
been there would deny it. Look at Long's History of Jamaica, 
The Privy Council Report, Gaisford's Essay on the good Effects 
of the Abolition of the Slave Trade, and other books. Let us hear 
also what Dr. Dickson, the editor of Mr. Steele, and who resided 
so many years in Barbadoes, says on the subject; for what he says 
is so admirably expressed that I cannot help quoting it : " The 
planters," says he, " do not take the right way to make human be- 
ings put forth their strength. They apply main force where they 
should apply moral motives, and punishments alone where rewards 
should be judiciously intermixed. They first beslave their poor 
people with their cursed whip, and then stand and wonder at the 
tremour of their nerves, and the laxity of their muscles. And yet, 
strange to tell, those very men affirm, and affirm truly, that a slave 
will do more work for himself in an afternoon than he can be made 
to do for his owner in a whole day or more ! " And did not the 
whole Assembly of Grenada, in the evidence they transmitted to 
the Privy Council, as we collect from the famous speech of Mr. 
Pitt on the Slave Trade in 1791, affirm the same thing? "He 
(Mr. Pitt) would show," he said, " the futility of the argument of 
his honourable friend. His honourable friend had himself admit- 
ted, that it was in the power of the colonies to correct the various 
abuses by which the Negro population was restrained. But they 
could not do this without improving the condition of their slaves, 
without making them approximate towards the rank of citizens, 
without giving them some little interest in their labour, which would 
occasion them to work with the energy of men. But now the As- 
sembly 



sembly of Grenada had themselves stated, that, though the Negroes 
were allowed the afternoon of only one day in every week, they would 
do as much work in that afternoon when employed for their own 
benefit, as in the whole day when employed in their masters' service. 
Now after this confession the House might burn all his calculations 
relative to the Negro population ; for if this population had not 
quite reached the desirable state which he had pointed out, this 
confession had proved that further supplies were not wanted. A 
Negro, if he worked for himself, could do double work. By an im- 
provement then, in the mode of labour, the work in the islands 
could be doubled. But if so, what would become of the argument 
of his honourable friend ? for then only half the number of the 
present labourers were necessary." 

But the fact, that the slaves in the West Indies do much more 
work for themselves in a given time than when they work for their 
masters, may be established almost arithmetically, if we will take 
the trouble of calculating from authentic documents which present 
themselves on the subject. It is surprising, when we look into 
the evidence examined by the House of Commons on the subject 
of the Slave Trade, to find how little a West Indian slave really 
does when he works for his master ; and this is confessed equally 
by the witnesses on both sides of the question. One of them 
(Mr. Francklyn) says, that a labouring man could not get his bread 
in Europe if he worked no harder than a Negro. Another (Mr. 
Tobin), that no Negro works like a day-labourer in England. 
Another (Sir John Bailing), that the general work of Negroes is 
not to be called labour. A fourth (Dr. Jackson), that an English 
labourer does three times as much work as a Negro in the West 
Indie's. Now how are these expressions to be reconciled with 
the common notions in England of Negro labour ? for " to work 
like a Negro" is a common phrase, which is understood to con- 
vey the meaning, that the labour of the Negroes is the most severe 
and intolerable that is known. One of the witnesses, however, 
just mentioned explains the matter. " The hardship," says he, 
fS of Negro field-labour is more in the mode than in the quantity 
done. The slave, seeing no end of his labour, stands over the 
work, and only throws the hoe to avoid the lash. He appears to 
work, without actually working." The truth is, that a Negro, 
having no interest in his work while working for his master, will 
work only while the whip is upon him. I can no where make out 
the clear net annual earnings of a field Negro on a sugar planta- 
tion to come up to 8/. sterling. Now what does he earn in the 
course of a year when he is working for himself? I dare not repeat 
what some of the witnesses for the planters stated to the House of 
Commons, when representing the enviable condition of the slaves 

in 



49 
in the West Indies ; for this would be to make him earn more for 
himself in one day than for his master in a week. Let us take then 
the lowest sum mentioned in the Book of Evidence. This is stated 
to be \4d. sterling per week ; and I4d. sterling per week would 
make 3/. sterling per year. But how many days in the week does 
he work when he makes such annual earnings ? The most time, 
which any of the witnesses gives to a field-slave for his own private 
concerns, is every Sunday, and also every Saturday afternoon in the 
week, besides three holidays in the year. But this is far from being 
the general account. Many of them say that he has only Sunday 
to himself j and others, that even Sunday is occasionally trespassed 
upon by his master. It appears, also, that even where the after- 
noon is given him, it is only out of crop -time. Now let us take 
into the account the time lost by slaves in going backwards and for- 
wards to their provision-grounds ; for though some of these are de- 
scribed as being only a stone's throw from their huts, others are de- 
scribed as being one, and two, and three, and even four miles off; 
and let us take into the account, also, that Sunday is, by the con- 
fession of all, the Negro market day, on which alone they can 
dispose of their own produce, and that the market itself may be 
from one to ten or fifteen miles from their homes, and that they 
who go there cannot be working in their gardens at the same time ; 
and we shall find that there cannot be on an average more than « 
clear three quarters of a day in the week, which they can call their 
own, and in which they can work for themselves. But call it a 
whole day, if you please, and you will find that the slave does for 
himself in this one day more than a third of what he does for his 
master in six; or that he works more than three times harder when 
he ivorks for himself than when he works for his master. 

I have now shown, first by the evidence of Mr. Botham, and 
secondly by the fact of Negroes earning more in a given time when 
they work in their own gardens, than when they work in their 
master's service, that the old maxim " of its being cheaper to em- 
ploy free men than slaves" is true, when applied to the operations 
and demands of West Indian agriculture. But if it be cheaper to 
employ free men than slaves in the West Indies, then they, who 
should emancipate their Negroes there, would promote their inter- 
est by so doing. " But hold !" says an objector, " we allow that 
their successors would be benefited, but not the emancipators them- 
selves. These would have a great sacrifice to make. Their slaves 
are worth so much money at this moment ; but they would lose all 
this value, if they were to set them free. I reply, and indeed 
I have all along affirmed, that it is not proposed to emancipate 
the slaves at once, but to prepare them for emancipation in a course 
of years. Mr. Steele did not make his slaves entirely free. Thev 

E were 



50 

were copyhold-bond slaves. They were still his property ': and they 
would, if he had lived, have continued so for many years. They 
therefore, who should emancipate, would lose nothing of the value 
of their slaves, so long as they brought them only to the door of 
liberty, but did not allow them to pass through it. But suppose 
they were to allow them to pass through it and thus admit them to 
freedom, they would lose nothing by so doing ; for they would not 
admit them to freedom till after a certain period of years, during 
which I contend that the value of every individual slave would 
have been reimbursed to them from the increased income of their 
estates. Mr. Steele, as we have seen, more than tripled the value 
of his income during his experiment : I believe that he more than 
quadrupled it ; for he says, thr.t he more than tripled it, besides in- 
creasing his stock, and laying out large sums annually in adding 
necessary works, and in repairs of the damage by the great hurri- 
cane. Suppose then a West India estate to yield at this moment 
a net income of 500/. per annum, this income would be increased, 
according to Mr. Steele's experience, to somewhere about 1700/. 
per annum. Would not, then, the surplus beyond the original 
500/., viz. 1200/. per annum, be sufficient- to reimburse the pro- 
prietor in a few years for the value of every slave which he had 
when he began his plan of emancipation ? But he would be reim- 
bursed again, that is, (twice over on the whole for every individual 
slave,) from a new source, viz. the improved value of his land. 
It is a fact well known in the United States, that a certain quantity 
of land, or farm, in full cultivation by free men, will fetch twice 
more money than the same quantity of land, similarly circum- 
stanced, in full cultivation by slaves. Let us suppose, then, that 
the slaves at present on any West Indian plantation are worth 
about as much as the land with the buildings upon it, to which 
they are attached, and that the land with the buildings upon it 
would rise to double its former value when cultivated by free men j 
it follows that the land and buildings alone would be worth as 
much then, that is, when worked by free labourers, as the land, 
buildings, and slaves together are worth at the present time. 

I have now, I think, pretty well canvassed the subject, and I 
shall therefore hasten to a conclusion. And first, I ask the West 
Indians, whether they think that they will be allowed to carry on 
their present cruel system, the arbitrary use of the whip ancjl the 
chain, and the brutal debasement of their fellow creatures,ybr ever. 
1 say, No ; I entertain better hopes of the humanity and justice of 
the British people. I am sure that they will interfere, and that 
when they once take up the cause, they will never abandon it till 
they have obtained their object. And what is it, after all, that I 
have been proposing in the course of the preceding pages ? Two 

things 



51 

things only, viz. that the laws relating to the slaves may be revised 
by the British Parliament, so that they may be made (as it was 
always intended) to accord with, and not to be repugnant to, the 
principles of the British Constitution, and that, when such ar eva- 
sion shall have taken place, the slaves may be put into a state of 
'preparation for emancipation ; and for such an emancipation as 
may be shown to be compatible with the joint interests of the 
master and the slave. Is there anything unreasonable in this pro- 
position ? Is it unreasonable to desire that those laws should be 
repealed, which are contrary to the laws of God ; or that the Afri- 
cans and their descendants, who have the shape, image, intel- 
lect, feelings, and affections of men, should be treated as human 
beings? 

The measure then, which I have been proposing, is not unrea- 
sonable ; and I am confident it would vol be injurious to the inter- 
ests of the West Indians themselves. These are at present, it is 
said, in great distress ; and so they have been for years ; and so 
they will still be (and moreover they will be getting worse and 
worse) so long as they continue slavery. How can such a wicked, 
such an ill-framed system succeed ? Has not the Almighty in his 
moral government of the world stamped a character upon human 
actions, and given such a turn to their operations, that the balance 
should be ultimately in favour of virtue ? Has he- not taken from 
those, who act wickedly, the power of discerning the right path ? 
or has he not so confounded their faculties, that they are for ever 
frustrating their own schemes ? It is only to know the practice of 
our planters to be assured, that it will bring on difficulty after 
difficulty, and loss after loss, till it will end in ruin. If a man were 
to sit down and to try to invent a ruinous system of agriculture, 
could he devise one more to his mind than that which they have 
been in the habit of using ? Let us look at some of the more strik- 
ing parts of this system. The first that stares us in the face, is 
the unnatural and destructive practice of forced labour. Here 
we see men working without any rational stimulus to elicit their 
exertions, and therefore they must be followed by drivers with 
whips in their hands. Well might it be said by Mr. Botham to 
the Committees of Privy-council and House of Commons, " Let 
it be considered, how much labour ia lost by the persons over- 
seeing the forced labourer, which is saved when he works for his 
own profit ; " and, notwithstanding all the vigilance and whipping 
of these drivers, I have proved that the slaves do more for them- 
selves in an afternoon, than in a whole day when they work for 
their masters. It was doubtless the conviction that forced labour 
was unprofitable, as well as that there would be less of human 
suffering, which made Mr. Steele take away the whips from his 

e 2 drivers, 



52 

drivers, as the very first step necessary in his improved system, or 
as the sine qua non without which such a system could not properly 
be begun ; and did not this very measure alter the face of his af- 
fairs in point of profit in three years after it had heen put into 
operation P And here it must be observed that, if ever emanci- 
pation should be begun by our planters, this must be (however 
they may dislike to part with arbitrary power) as much a first step 
with them as it was with Mr. Steele. Forced labour stands at 
the head of the catalogue of those nuisances belonging to slavery, 
which oppose the planter's gain. It must be removed before any 
thing else can be done. See what mischiefs it leads to, indepen- 
dently of its want of profit. It is impossible that forced labour 
can be kept up from day to day without injury to the constitution 
of the slaves; and if their health is injured, the property of their 
masters must be injured also. Forced labour, again, sends many 
of them to the sick-houses. Here is, at any rate, a loss of their 
working time. But it drives them also occasionally to run. away, 
and sometimes to destroy themselves. Here again is a loss of 
their working time, and of property into the bargain. Forced la- 
lour, then, is one of those striking parts in the West Indian hus- 
bandry, in which we see a constant source of loss to those who 
adopt it; and may we not speak, and yet with truth, as unfavourably 
of some of the other striking parts in the same system ? What 
shall we say, first, to that injurious disproportion of the articles of 
croppage with the wants of the estates, which makes little or no 
provision of food for the labourers (the very first to he cared for), 
but leaves these to be fed by articles to be bought three thousand 
miles off in another country, let the markets there be ever so high, 
or the prices ever so unfavourable, at the time ? What shall we 
say, again, to that obstinate and ruinous attachment to old customs, 
in consequence of which even acknowledged improvements are 
almost forbidden to be received ? How generally has the intro- 
duction of the plough been opposed in the West Indies, though 
both the historians of Jamaica have recommended the use of it, 
and though it has been proved that one plough with two sets of 
horses to relieve each other, would turn up as much land in a day, 
as one hundred Negroes could with their hoes ! Is not the hoe also 
continued in earthing up the canes there, when Mr. Botham 
proved, more than thirty years ago, that two men would do more 
with the East Indian shovel at that sort of work in a day, than ten 
Negroes with the former instrument ? So much for unprofitable 
instruments of husbandry ; a few words now on unprofitable modes 
of employment. It seems, first, little less than infatuation, to 
make Negroes carry baskets of dung upon their heads, basket 
after basket, to the field. I do not mention this so much as, an in- 
tolerable 



53 

tolerable hardship upon those who have to perform it, as an im- 
provident waste of strength and time. Why are not horses, or 
mules, or oxen, and carts or other vehicles of convenience, used 
oftener on such occasions ? I may notice also that cruel and most 
disadvantageous mode of employment of making Negroes collect, 
grass for the cattle, by picking it by the hand blade by blade. Are 
no artificial grasses to be found in our islands, and is the existence 
of the scythe unknown there? But it is of no use to dwell longer 
upon tliis subject. The whole system is a ruinous one from the 
beginning to the end. And from whence does such a system arise ? 
It has its origin in slavery alone. It is practised no where but in 
the land of ignorance and slavery. Slavery indeed, or rather the 
despotism which supports slavery, has no compassion, and it is 
one of its characteristics never to think of sparing the sinews of the 
wretched creature called a slave. Hence it is slow to adopt helps, 
with which a beneficent Providence has furnished us, by giving 
to man an inventive faculty for easing his burthens, or by submit- 
ting the beasts of the field to his dominion and his use, and it flies 
to expedients which are contrary to nature and reason. How 
then can such a system ever answer ? Were an English farmer 
to have recourse to such a system, he would not be able to pay his 
rent for a single year. If the planters then are in distress, it is 
their own fault. They may, however, thank the abolitionists that 
they are not worse off than they are at present. The abolition of 
the slave trade, by cutting off the purchase of new slaves, has cut 
off one cause of their ruin * ; and it is only the abolition of slavery 
ivhich can yet save them. Had the planters, when the slave trade 
was abolished, taken immediate measures to meet the change; had 
they then revised their laws and substituted better; had they then 
put their slaves into a state of preparation for emancipation, — in 
what a much more desirable situation would they have been at this 
moment ! In fact, nothing can save them, but the abolition of slavery 
on a wise and prudent plan. Take away from the planters the use 
aud practice of slavery, and the hour of their prosperity would be 
begun. Can we doubt that Providence would then bless their 
endeavours, and that deliverance from their difficulties would be 
their portion in the end ? 

It has appeared, I hope, by this time, that what 1 have been 
proposing is not unreasonable, and that so far from being injurious 
to the interests of the planters, it would be highly advantageous to 
them. I shall now show, that I do not ask for the introduction 
of a more humane system into our Colonies at a time when it 

* Dickson's Mitigation of Slavery, p. 213, where it is proved that bought 
slaves never refund their purchase-money to their owners. 

would 



54 

would be improper to grant it ; and that no fair objection can be 
raised against the present moment, as the fit era from whence the 
measures in contemplation should commence. There was, in- 
deed, a time when the planters might have offered something like 
an excuse for the severity of their conduct towards their slaves, 
on the plea that the greater part of them then in the colonies were 
African-bom or strangers, and that cargoes were constantly pour- 
ing in, one after the other, consisting of the same sort of beings, or 
of stubborn, ferocious people, never accustomed to work, whose 
spirits it was necessary to break, and whose necks to force down to 
the yoke ; and that this could only be effected by the whip, the 
chain, the iron collar, and other instruments of the kind. But now 
no such plea can be offered. It is now sixteen years since the 
slave trade was abolished by England, and it is therefore to be 
presumed, that no new slaves have been imported into the British 
colonies within that period. The slaves, therefore, who are there 
at this day, must consist either of Africans, whose spirits must 
have been long ago broken, or of Creoles born in the cradle and 
brought up in the trammels of slavery. What argument then can 
be produced for the continuation of the present barbarous disci- 
pline ? And I am glad to find that two gentlemen, both of whom 
we have had occasion to quote before, bear me out in this remark. 
Mr. Steele, speaking of some of the old cruel laws of Barbadoes, 
applies them to the case before us in these words : — " As accord- 
ing to Ligon's account, there were not above two-thirds of the 
island in plantations in the vear 1650, we must suppose that in the 
year 1688 the great number of African-born slaves brought into 
the plantations in chains, and compelled to labour by the terrors of 
corporal punishment, might have made it appear necessary to enact 
a temporary law so harsh as the statute No. 82 : but when the 
great majority of the Negroes were become vernacular, born in 
the island, naturalized by language, and familiarized by custom, 
did not policy as well as humanity require them to be put under 
•milder conditions, such as were granted to the slaves of our Saxon 
ancestors ? Colonel Malenfant speaks the same sentiments. In 
defending his plan, which he offered to the French Government 
for St. Domingo in 1814, against the vulgar prejudice, that " where 
you employ Negroes you must of necessity use slavery," he de- 
livers himself thus : — "* If all the Negroes on a plantation had 
not been more than six months out of Africa, or if they had the 
same ideas concerning an independent manner of life as the Indians 
or the savages of Guiana, I should consider my plan to be im- 
practicable. I should then say that coercion would be necessary : 

*P. 125. 

but 



55 

but ninety-nine out of every hundred Negroes in St. Domingo 
are aware that they cannot obtain necessaries without work. They 
know that it is their duty to work, and they are even desirous of 
working ; but the remembrance of their cruel sufferings in the 
time of slavery renders them suspicious." We may conclude, 
then, that if a cruel discipline was not necessary in the years 1790 
and 1794, to which these gentlemen allude, when there must have 
been many thousands of newly imported Africans both in St. Do- 
mingo and in the English Colonies, it cannot be necessary now t 
when there have been no importations into the latter for fifteen 
■gears. There can be no excuse, then, for the English planters 
for not altering their system, and this immediately. It is, on the 
other hand, a great reproach to them, considering the quality and 
character of their slaves, that they should not of themselves have 
come forward on the sulject before this time. 

Seeing then that nothing has been done where it ought, it is the 
duty of the abolitionists to resume their lalours. If through the 
medium of the abolition of the slave trade they have not accom- 
plished, as they expected, the whole of their object, they have no 
alternative but to resort to other measures, or to attempt by consti- 
tutional means, under that Legislature which has already sanc- 
tioned their efforts, the mitigation of the cruel treatment of the 
Negroes, with the ultimate view of extinguishing, in due time and 
in a suitable manner, slavery itself. Nor ought any time to be 
lost in making such an attempt ; for it is a melancholy fact, that 
there is a decrease of the slave population in our islands at the 
present moment. What other proof need we require of the se- 
verity of the slavery there, and of the necessity of its mitigation f 
Severe punishments, want of sufficient food, labour extracted by 
the whip, and a system of prostitution, conspire, almost as much 
as ever, to make inroads upon the constitutions of the slaves, and 
to prevent their increase. And let it be remembered here, that 
any former defect of this kind was supplied by importations ; 
but that importations are now unlawful. Unless, therefore, the 
abolitionists interfere, and that soon, our West Indian planters 
may come to Parliament and say, " We have now tried your ex- 
periment. It has not answered. You must therefore give us 
leave to go again to the coast of Africa for slaves." There is 
also another consideration worthy of the attention of the aboli- 
tionists, viz. that a public attempt made in England to procure the 
abolition of slavery would very much promote their original ob- 
ject, the cause of the abolition of the slave trade; for foreign 
courts have greatly doubted our sincerity as to the latter measure, 
and have therefore been very backward in giving us their assist- 
ance in it. If England, say they, abolished the slave trade from 

moral 



56 

moral motives, how happens it that she continues slavery ? But 
if this public attempt were to succeed, then the abolitionists would 
see their wishes in a direct train for completion : for if slavery were 
to fall in the British islands, this event would occasion death in a 
given time, and without striking any further blow, to the execrable 
trade in every part of the world ; because those foreigners, who 
should continue slavery, no longer able to compete in the markets 
with those who should employ free men, must abandon the slave 
trade altogether. 

Bet here perhaps the planters will say, " tVhat right have the 
people of England to interfere with our property, which would be 
the case if they were to attempt to abolish slavery ? " The people 
of England might reply, that they have as good a right as you, 
the planters, have to interfere with that most precious of all pro- 
perty, the liberty of your slaves, seeing that you hold them by no 
right that is not opposed to nature, reason, justice, and religion. 
The people of England have no desire to interfere with your pro- 
perty, but with your oppression. It is probable that your pro- 
perty would be improved by the change. But, to examine this 
right more minutely, I contend, first, that they have always a 
right to interfere in behalf of humanity and justice wherever their 
appeals can be heard. I contend, secondly, that they have a 
more immediate right to interfere in the present case, because 
the oppressed persons in question, living in the British dominions 
and under the British Government, are their fellow subjects. I 
contend again, that they have this right upon the ground that 
they are giving you, the West Indians, a monopoly for their sugar, 
by buying it from you exclusively at a much dearer rate than they 
can get it from other quarters. Surely they have a right to say 
to you, as customers for your produce, Change your system and 
we will continue to deal with you; but if you will not change it, 
we will buy our sugar elsewhere, or we will not buy sugar at all. 
The East Indian market is open to us, and we prefer sugar that 
is not stained with blood. Nay, we will petition Parliament to 
take off the surplus duty with which East Indian sugar is loaded 
on your account. What superior claims have you either upon Par- 
liament or upon us, that you should have the preference ? As to the 
East Indians, they are as much the subjects of the British empire 
as yourselves. As to the East India Company, they support all 
their establishments, both civil and military, at their own expense. 
They come to our Treasury for nothing ; while you, with naval 
stations, and an extraordinary military force maintained for no other 
purpose than to keep in awe an injured population, and with heavy 
bounties on the exportation of your sugar, put us to such an ex- 
pense as makes us doubt whether your trade is worth "having on its 

present 



57 

present terms. They, the fiast India Company, again, have been 
a blessing to the Natives with whom they have been concerned. 
They distribute an equal system of law and justice to all, without 
respect of persons. They dispel the clouds of ignorance, super- 
stition, and idolatry, and carry with them civilization and liberty 
wherever they go. You, on the other hand, have no code of jus- 
tice hut for yourselves. You deny it to those who cannot help them- 
selves. You hinder liberty by your cruel restrictions on manumis- 
sion ; and dreading the inlet of light, you study to perpetuate igno- 
rance and barbarism. Which then of the two competitors has 
the claim to preference by an English Parliament and an English 
People ? It may probably soon become a question with the latter, 
whether they will consent to pay a million annually more for West 
India sugar than for other of like quality, or, which is the same 
thing, whether they will allow themselves to be taxed annually to 
the amount of a million sterling to support West Indian slavery ! ! 
I shall now conclude by saying, that I leave it, and that I re- 
commend it, to others to add to the light which I have endeavoured 
to furnish on this subject, by collecting new facts relative to Eman- 
cipation and the result of it in other parts of the world, as well as 
relative to the superiority of free over servile labour, in order that 
the West Indians may be convinced, if possible, that they would 
be benefited by the change of system which I propose. They 
must already know, both by past and present experience, that the 
ways of unrighteousness are not profitable. Let them not doubt, 
since the Almighty has decreed the balance in favour of virtuous 
actions, that their efforts under the new system will work together 
for their good. 



THE END. 



PRINTED BY KICHARD TAYLOR., 
SHOE-LANE, LONDON. 



CONTENTS. 



Views of the Abolitionists respecting Slavery 1 

Nature of West Indian Meliorating Laws - - - - - 1 

Liability of Slaves to Ill-treatment - - - - :-' - 3 

Necessity of framing entirely new Laws - - - - f> 4 

Necessity of Parliamentary Interference to that End 6 

Right of Slaves to Freedom - - -,-- - - 7 

Slavery opposed to Justice, Reason, and Christianity - - - 8' 

not sanctioned by Grants, Charters, or English Law 10 

Emancipation practicable and safe - - - - - - 14 

Examples of Emancipation : 1. Nova Scotian Blacks 15 

2. American Refugees at Trinidad - ib. 

S. Disbanded Black Regiments - - 16 

4. Liberated Captives at Sierra Leone - ib. 

5. St Domingo 19 

6. Columbia - - - - -29 

7. Mr. Steele of Barbadoes , ■ - - 31 
Emancipation profitable to the Planters - - - - - 89 
Testimony of Mr. Steele to this Point - - - - - ib. 
Mr. Botham's Evidence to this Point ----- 44 
Proof to this Point furnished by West Indians 46 
Conclusion - - - - -- r ^ - -50 



List of Publications containing important Information on 
the general Subject of Slavery — viz. 

Ramsay's Essay on the Treatment and Conversion of Negro Slaves in the 
British Sugar Colonies, 1784. 

Debates on the Slave Trade, 1731, 1792, 1806, and 1807. 

Wilberforce's Letter to his Constituents, 1 807. 

Pinckard's Notes on the West Indies, 1815. 

Collins's Professional Planter, 1804. 

Dickson's Mitigation of Slavery, 1814. 

Watson's Defence of the Methodist Missions in the West Indies, 1816. 

Report of the African Institution on Reasons for a Registry of Slaves, 1815, 

Review of the Colonial Registry Bills by the African Institution, 1820. 

Sixteenth Annual Report of the African Institution, 1822. 

Stephen's Letters to Wilberforce on the Registry of Slaves, 1816. 

Cropper's Letters to Wilberforce, 1822. 

Singleton's Report of the State of Sierra Leone, 1822. 

Pamphleteer, No. XVI., containing Coster on the Amelioration of Slavery, 
1816. 

Wilberforce's Appeal to the Religion, Justice, and Humanity of the Inhabit- 
ants of the British Empire on behalf of the Negro Slaves in the West Indies, 
1823. 

Negro Slavery, as it exists in the United States and in the West Indies, 
especially in Jamaica, 1823. 

Cropper's Letter on the Injurious Effects of High Prices and the Beneficial 
Effects of Low Prices on the Condition of Slavery, 1823. 

Hodgson's Letter to Say, on the comparative Expense of Free and Slave 
Labour, 1823. 

East and West India Sugar, 1823. 

Proceedings in the House of Commons, on Slavery at the Cape of Good 
Hope, 1822. 

Declaration of the Objects of the Liverpool Society for Abolishing Slavery, 
1823. 

Thoughts on the Necessity of Improving the Condition of the Slaves in the 
British Colonies, with a view to their ultimate Emancipation ; and on the 
Practicability, the Safety, and the Advantages of the latter Measure. By 
T. Clarkson, Esq. 1824. 

A Review of some of the Arguments which are commonly advanced against 
Parliamentary Interference in behalf of the Negro Slaves; with a Statement of 
Op'ii-ions which have been expressed on that Subject by many of our most di- 
stinguish Statesmen, including Earl Grey, Earl of Liverpool, Lord Gren- 
ville, Lord a M dley and Ward, Lord Melville, Mr. Burke, Mr. Pitt, &c, &c. &c. 
1823. 

Substance of the T) eD ate in the House of Commons, on the 15th May, 
1823, on a Motion for t\ ie Mitigation and Gradual Abolition of Slavery 
throughout the British Domn: ons . w ; t i 1 a p re f ace and Appendixes, con- 
taining Facts and Reasonings illustw, ve f Colonial Bondage, 1823. 



if 



