1 

FIFTY YEARS AGO.— WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON. 

Y Boston, Sept. 8, 1 83 1. 

Dear Sir, — I labor under very signal obligations to you for 

your disclosures relative to my personal safety. These do not 

move, me from my purpose the breadth of a hair. Desperate 

wretches exist at the South, no doubt, who would assassinate 

me for a sixpence. Still, I was aware of this peril when I 

began my advocacy of African rights. Slaveholders deem me 

their enemy ; but my aim is simply to benefit and save them, 

and not to injure them. I value their bodies and souls at a 

high price, though I abominate their crimes. Moreover, I do 

not justify the slaves in their rebellion ; yet I do not condemn 

them, and applaud similar conduct in white men. I deny the 

right of any people to fight for liberty, and so far am a Quaker 

in principle. Of all men living, however, our slaves have the 

best reason to assert their rights by violent measures, inasmuch 

as they are more oppressed than others. 

My duty is plain, — my path without embarrassment. I shall 

still continue to expose the criminality and danger of slavery, 

be the consequences what they may to myself. I hold my Hfe 

at a cheap rate : I'know it is in imminent danger; but, if the 

assassin take it away, the Lord will raise up another and a 

better advocate in my stead. 

Again thanking you for your friendly letter, I remain in haste, 

Yours in the best of bonds, 

WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 
To LaRoy Sunderland. 



does this astronomy make a mean or national or personal in- 
terpretation of the universe impossible. — Lecture on the Law 
of Life. 



ANECDOTES OF THE LATE WILLIAM M. HUNT. 

A YOUNG sculptor friend of Hunt, who had executed some 
very beautiful bronzes, wrote to him to ask if it would be a 
good idea to exhibit them in Boston, and whether there would 
be any probability of selling them there, and received the fol- 
lowing answer : " By all means, show your things here. If 
there is not more than three persons who will enjoy them, you 
should send them. Those three need to see them. As for sell- 
ing them, that you need not expect : but, if you can get up a 
lecture on the shape of the dishes that the Greeks used to mix 
plaster in, you will have plenty of chances to deliver it ; that 
subject being one of surpassing importance at this moment in 
this city." 

When Hunt was painting a certain public character, the lat- 
ter's son came in to see the portrait, and, observing only the 
shaded shirt-front, exclaimed in surprise, " Is father's shirt as 
dirty as that? I thought he wore a white one." — " My G — ! " 
said Hunt, " isn't your father any thing but a white shirt? " 

Quite a number of persons objected to the nudity of the 
" Boy chasing a Butterfly " when it was first exhibited ; and one 
person, who knew that it was painted from the artist's little son, 
remarked, " Oh, how that boy will hate his father when he 
grows up ! " T. H. B. 



