Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witin funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/twolettersonsubjOOpres 



TWO liETTERS. 



^mm Bwmum @f ^LAfmm'^i 



FROM 



W3S.S PUBSBITTSR-Sr OP CKII.I<ICOTHB^ 



€HIJR€HES UNDER THEIR CARE. 



HILLSBOROUGH: 

Printed by Whetstone & Buxton — Cincinnati. 

1830. 



ri 



ttS. 7S7^A/ m,l 



EXTRACTS 

From fhe Minutes of the Presbytery of Chlllicothe, sitting at West Union 
September 30, 1329. 



" Messrs. Gilliland and Crothers were appointed a com- 
mittee to prepare a pastoral letter to the churches under our 
care, on the subject of Slavery, and report at the spring 
meeting of Presbytery. 

Jan. 6, 1830. 
" The committee appointed to prepare a Pastoral Letter to 
the churches under our care, on the subject of Slavery, re- 
ported two forms of Letters, both of which were adopted ; and 
it was resolved that they be published together, and that 1800 
copies be printed." 
(An extract.) 

Samuel D. Blythe — Stated Clerk, 



A PASTORAL LETTER 

1 R03I THE PRESBYTEKY OF CHILLICOTHE TO THE CIIUECHES 
UNDER THEIR CARE. 



Dear Brethren: 

In our last letter, addressed to you, on the subject of en 
tire abstinence from the use of Ardent Spirits, except as a me- 
dicine; we remarked, that much light had been thrown on the 
subject, within the last 26 years, so that we needed not, now, 
to offer any arguments to prove, that much would be gained, 
and nothing lost, by pursuing the course we recommended . 
We rejoice that the light is daily increasing, and shines bright- 
er and brighter, on every part of our land, by means of ser- 
mons, essays and public addresses. We rejoice too, in the 
rapid increase of Temperance Societies, throughout our coun- 
try, the. efforts they are making, and the success which a mer- 
ciful God is affording. To every ray of light on this subject, 
we pray that your eyes and your hearts may be open, and that 
you may not be behind your brethren, in any part of the world, 
in prudent and zealous efforts to banish from the earth, that 
destroyer of men. 

Hitherto, we have been chiefly roused to action, in this great 
enterprise, by a view of the many dreadful evils occasioned by 
Intemperance, in our guilty world : but the lime is now come, 
when we should be siill more stimulated by the success already 
obtained, and a joyful anticipation of the future. Only let the 
cause of Temperance go on in its march, for fifty years, as it 
has done for two or three years past, and think brethren, think 
soberly, what will be the happy results. Let your minds, by 
way of anticipation, visit our Penitentiaries, and what do you 
see? Ancient monuments of the folly ot men, in making use 
of Ardent Spirits, as a common beverage; once the abodes of 
thousands, with, now, probably not one hundred inhabitants.. 
Look into our common Jails, formerly crowded with wretched 
criminals; and what do you now find? Only here and there, 
a solitary individual; without a companion to encourage his 
perseverance in crime; a drunken desperado to break open 
his prison doors; or a single individual to hand him through 



iUe grate, a polion of strong drink, to drown his sorrow. G^ 
now to the court of justice, and what do you see? A grave 
bench, a sober bar, consisting of two or three well qualified 
Attorneys, a sober and intelligent Jury,- and all the business 
performed in less than half the time formerly occupied in liti- 
gation, purely the fruits of intemperance. Now visit the 
poor house, and what do you find? Nothing but an old de- 
cayed building without a single inhabitant; except where it 
may have been converted into private property,and become the 
abode of some happy family. Now take your journey thro' 
the whole length and breadth of the land, you see no drunk- 
ard sleeping by the way side; you meet no squalid beggar, 
who has spent his last shilling in the Tavern. Your ears are 
not offended with the bawling and profanity of drunken 
horsemen coming out from the place where the deadly poison 
is sold by the gill, or the half-pint. Look at the fields, once 
the property of intemperate men, grown over with thorns and 
thistles, and the fences broken down : now see them enclosed 
and covered with waving crops of corn. Enter the dwellings, 
once the abodes of poverty and wretchedness, and see them 
converted into comfoi table mansions, inhabited by kind md 
hospitable parents, surrounded by smiling and well clothed 
childr6ft. Now take up your lodging for the night, in the Inn 
prepared for the reception of the weary traveller, and if you 
please, let it be the evening of Saturday; where is the place 
once called the bar, aod which used to be surrounded with 
noise and filth, especially on this evening of the week? It is 
gone, and the whole apartment is converted into a comforta- 
ble room, where you may sit, and talk, and eat, and pray, and 
sleep, without molestation from the noise and foolery of the 
drunkard. Now, on the holy Sabbath, turn your feet to the 
house of (j?bd, and what do you discover there? There you see 
the descendants of the men who used to spend the Sabbath in 
the tippling shops, or doze them away upon their beds, after a 
night spent in debauchery, and a few of those very men them- 
selves, sitting under the sound of the gospel, clothed and in 
their right mind, alt waiting to hear tvhat God the Lord wilt 
say unto their souls. Now look into the records of the church 
lately made, and compare them with those made in the eigh- 
teenth century, or even in the beginning of the present one, 
and behold the contrast. Now you read not a single line like 
this: (such an one is convicted of intemperance in the use of 
ardent spirits, and is therefore suspended from the communion 



of the church, imtil he give satisfactory evidence of repent", 
ance.) Wheresoevr you turn your eyes, you see the result o 
the change, is agreat increase of the wealth and comfort of the 
human family. We are confident, brethren, we have not paint- 
ed too high; and we hope your own minds will much enlarge 
the picture. 

Now, with such a prospect before us, where is the christian, 
where ig the lover of his country, who will refuse to lend his 
aid, and exert his influence, to bring about the glorious change ; 
whoever may refuse, we pray, dear brethren, that none of you ^ 
may be found among the unhappy number. 

But we wish, now, to address you on another subject, which 
we deem to be of great importance; we mean the subject of 
Slavery, as practised in these United States; and, as you very 
well knov^, by many who profess to be the followers of the 
meek and lowly Jesus. On this subject, as on the former, 
much light has also been cast, within the last fifty years. At 
the close of the Revolutionary War, many of the people of the 
United States were entirely ignorant of the the way in which 
their slaves were procured in Africa : they knew nothing of 
the horrors of the middle passnge; and some even doubted 
whethrr the Negroes were human beings. When the rights 
of men began to be much talked of in America; and a few 
bold spirits sto6)d forth, to assert the rights of black men: a- 
mong those who acknowledged them to be men, there were 
found some, who professed to believe, that tliey were the seed 
of Cain; that the colour of iheir skin, was the mark set on 
that unhappy man, and that therefore, they were lawful slaves: 
forgetting that Cain never was doomed to slavery, and that if 
he had, his posterity were all destroyed by the flood. Others 
said, they were the posterity of Canaan; and were, by a pro- 
phetic curse doomed to perpetual elavery : forgetting that God 
had, long since, inflicted that curse in the land of Canaan. 
Some plead the example of Abraham as authority for holding 
slaves, not considering that we have no evidence of Abraham's 
servants being slaves, more than the subjects of any other hu- 
mane prince, or Patriarch. Some even ventured to plead the 
silence of our Saviour, on ther subject; and the exhortations 
of the Apostles, to masters and servants, as authority for hold- 
ing the Africans in slavery: not discerning, that the precepts 
delivered by our Saviour, and his Apostles, would, if univer- 
sally observed, forever abolish all involuntary slavery of men, 
svln.^ have not forfeited their right to liberty. 



Bin those (lays'^of darkness are, in a good degree, past and 
gone; and we hope gone forever. It is now generally ac* 
knowledged, and thai too by nviny slave-holders themselves; 
that the shivery of the Afiicrn ', in America, is a national sin : 
Ihat they are men, that they tiave the same natural rights as 
other menj and that their treatment, both as it respecis the 
m inner of procuring them, and the bondage in wliich they 
are held, is more cruel than that of the Israelites in Egypt; or 
even that of the captives held to slavery, in the Roman Em- 
pire. To prove these points, therefore, is no part of our de- 
sign. You, brethren, in your imagination, have. almost be- 
held the towns of Africa in flames; for the piirpofie of kid- 
napping- and enslaving unoffending freemen. You have read, 
or heard of the horrors of their transportation to America, 
till the blood has almost curdled in your veins. You have 
seen them exposed to sale, like beasts, in the market: hus- 
bands and wives, parents and children, brothers and sisters, 
separated and torn from each other, by the hands of avari- 
cious and cruel tyrants, never more to meet on this side of 
the grave. You have seen them again, in their state of sep- 
iiraiion, with thousands and tens of thousands, of their des- 
cendants, dragging out a miserable life of bondage, under the 
hand of cruel masters, and mistresses, and taskmasters; with- 
out one gleam of hope, that they shall ever be delivered, but 
by death. You have seen their miserable huis, — their tatter- 
ed garments, — their coarse and scanty food, — their downcast 
eyes, too far consumed with grief to shed a tear; — and at their 
f5igh3,and groans, and bilter cries, under the lash, your hearts 
have sickened and turned away. Some of you too, like Lot, 
making his escape from Sodom, have fled from those parts of 
the land, where such cruelties are practised, that your eyes 
and ears might no longer be offended, with such enormities: 
that your children might be preserved from the infection ; and 
that you and they might escape the vengeance of him who 
has said : For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing 
of the needy will I arise: 1 will set him in safety from him 
that pvffeth at him. In thus taking your flight, brethren, we 
think you have done wisely. It was a duty you owed to 
yourselves; but, especially, to your dear children. 

But let us not imagine, that because we have got be3'ond 
the sound of the slaveholder's lash, and the black man's 
eiies, that we have done all that is our duty to do; aud have 



no mme concern in this tragical scene. The practice of 
slavery is still continued, with bnt little mitigation of its hor- 
ioi's; and tjie number of slaves, .nd slaveholders is, from year 
to year, increasing; an awful evidence, among many others, 
that mere natural light will not make the hearts of men better: 
and we still make a part of the gu'ihy nation, whose hands 
are defiled with the blood of Africa; and which, without re- 
pentance and reformation, cannot escape the judgments of 
Heaven. How then can we suppose; or how dare any one 
tell us, ihat this is a matter with which we have no business? 
Surely, if we have one spark (jf love to God; any love to our 
country; any compassion for ihe poor slaves; any love to 
their masters; any love to ourselves, or any concern for na- 
tions yet unborn; we ought to exert our inlluence, in the use 
of all lawful and prudent means, to put a stop to the horrid 
traffic; and, if possible, yet to save our country, from impen- 
ding ruin. 

But you will, probably, ask: What should ice do? or 
What can we do more than to Iceep our oivn hands clear of 
ihe odious practice? Tins is a very important inquiry; and 
one, which we readily acknowledge, is attended with some 
difficulty: yet it is one from which no christian ought to 
shrink. The case is one of those almost desperate ones. — 
The practice of slavery has been so long continued : the 
slaves have become so numerous; their character so degraded; 
their masters, and their masters' children so accustomed to 
living by the labour of the slaves: the laws of the slave 
states so unfavorable to emancipition; the feelings of hu- 
manity so blunted, and the minds of many so impatient of 
any thing like reproof, on this subject; that we have indeed 
reason to fear, that our destruction is determined, and is near 
at hand. 

Yet, while the Lord delays his judgments: while he is 
raising up a few in almost every part of the land, to plead the 
cause of the oppressed : while we, every year, hear of a lew 
slave-holders repenting and emancipating their slaves; there 
is a gleam of hope, breaking through the dark cloud, tJiat the 
Lord may yet, in infinite meicy, spare us; and put it into the 
hearts of oppressors, to loote ike hands of wickedness, to undo 
the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and to break 
eviery yoke. But be this as it may; while the Lord is waiting 
to be gracious, and is calling us to repentance, he requires 



8 

Jiis people to siand in the gcip^ to act as intercessors^ and lo 
be diligent 'v\ the discharge of every duty, tending to save 
from ruin, their coimtiy, and the church ot' the living God. 
And now, brethren, the chief object we have in view, at 
present, is to present to your minds, a few of the leading 
duties, which we believe to be incumbent on us in the pres- 
ent crisis; &r. 

1, Let us begin at home — Let usjirstca^-.tthe beam out of 
our own eijCy before we attempt to cast, eiiher a beam or a 
}noiej out of a brother's eye. Let us duly consider the part 
we may have taken, in the affliction of the rppresseil Africans. 
Have not some of us, even bouglit and sold, the bodies and 
souls of these unhappy men? Or jiave we not insulted and 
abused some of them, treating them with scorn and contempt, 
while held in bondage, either as our own property, or the 
property of our ftithers and neighbors? Or have we not en- 
couraged ihe shameful traffick,by conniving at it, or talking 
of it as thoug]] it were an innocent ihing; or at least, as if it 
were a thing of no great moment? Ol hov; offensive must 
Ihese things be to that God, who has said : thou shalt love thy 
■jheighbcr as thyself; and. He that opprcsseth the por^i* re- 
proachelh hisMalicr; and to that Saviour who says: What- 
soever ye would that men sJiovld do vnto you, do ye even so 
to theniyfor this is the law and ihe prophets? If, then, in any 
of these Vv'ays, or other similar v</ays, we have contributed to 
swell the enormous stock of national guilt; let us not attempt 
(o cover our sin: but let us humbly confess it to God, implo- 
ring his pardon, through the blood of atonement. 

2. In the providence of God, a number of poor, and al- 
most friendless, black people, have been led to seek a resi- 
dence among us; tov,'ard whom we are bound to acta just 
and friendly part. These people, generally, have either been 
brought hither by their former masters, for the sake of eman- 
cipaiing them.; or have been manumitted in slave states, where 
the laws of the land would not permit them to remain, but 
in a state of bondage. To us they have fled for refuge: not 
that they expect much from us; but that, under a milder con- 
stitution, tliBv may enjoy a small share of that liberty which 
every man desires: at least so much, asno't to be bought and 
sold like beasts. As might be expected; they are generally 
poor, and illiterate; and therefore not a very desirable kind 
of citizens. It seems, too, to be very unfair, in those who 






9 

have enjoyed the fruits of their labour, and redu<^ed them to 
their present state of degradation, now, to cast them off, and 
throw them on us for protection. But are these sufficient 
reasons why we should refuse them a residence among us: 
orrefuseto aid them, in rising toa more respectable standing, 
in society? To mere politicians, they may seem so; but, sure- 
ly, to the man, who takes his rules of conduct from thebiblej 
and is under the influence of religious feeling, they must ap» 
pear in a very different point of light. We are sorry to 
learn, that many of our fellow citizens are disposed, either to 
force these poor people back into a state of bondage, or 
oblige them to fly into foreign climes; where, few of them 
have either ability or inclination to go. But, dear brethren, 
we would fondly hope, that none of you will give the least 
countenance to such a measure. If you would, we ask: 
Where is your pity for the poor? Where is yourZoye to your 
neighbour? Where is that charity which endureth all things? 
From the knowledge you have of your Saviour's life, when 
he was on the earth; and of the precepts which he delivered 
to his disciples; how do you think he would have treated these 
poor black people? Would he have denied them the benefit 
of an education, in a common school? Would he have given 
encouragement to the plan, of forcing them back into a state 
of slavery? You feel as if the very thought were blasphemy. 
Then^Ze^ the same mind be in you that was in him; and walk 
as he umlked. He says, Blessed is he that considereth the 
poor. He promises to bless those who deal their bread to 
the hungry, and bring the poor that are cast out to their hou- 
self. These people are poor, and they are outcasts. Then 
plead their cause; and while they behave as well as other 
poor and ignorant people, suffer them to reside quietly among 
you, until they can find a better asylum; and as you may 
have opportunity, assist them to rise from their present de- 
graded state. Remember that, for aught yuu know, you, or 
your children, may, one day, be placed in similar circum- 
stances. If you should, how would you wish to be treated, 
by those among wliom your lot might be cast? The answer 
is easy. Then, lokatsoevcr ye would that men should do unto 
you, do ye even so unto them. 

3. We have said, that we make part of a nation, whose 
hands are defiled with blood; but must now say, that we 
belong to a church, too, in whose skirts, and on whose Jin- 



10 

gers^ a large portion of that blood will be found, in thu 
day, when the Lord maketh inquisition for blood. It is a 
lamentable fact, and one that cannot be denied, that from 
the commencement of the African slave Irade, unlil the 
present time, professed christians have had a large share in 
carrying oi> the horrid traffic; and even now, hundreds and 
thousands of slaves are bought and sold, and held in bond- 
age, by professors of religion of various christian denomina- 
tions. And we apprehend there is little risk in saying, that 
this one circumstance, has contributed more to encourage 
and extend the practice of slavery, than any other; or, per- 
haps, than all others beside. Had the church kept her hands 
clear of this bloody crime, it is probable, nay, it is almost 
certain, that slavery in these United States would have been 
long ago abolished. The influence of the church in the 
world, has always been great, and will be so till the end of 
time; this is the deciee of heaven. But this influence must 
always be salutary or injurious, according to the purity or 
impurity of the church, in her doctrines and practice, l3ut espe- 
cially in her practice. They who would prevent her inflci- 
ence, must destroy her, which earth and hell can never do. 
They who wish her to exert a bad influence, must corrupt 
her. Tiiey who wish her to have a salutary influence, must 
purify and reforna her; and if you wish to reform the nation 
or the world, from any sin, which the church has permitted 
or encouraged in her members, you must begin with the 
church. 

We see, therefore, how important it is, that the church in 
this country, should arise from her slumbers, and endeavour 
to purge herself from the sin of slavery. We see also, how 
this is to be accomplished. It is not merely by preaching-, 
and writing, and talking; but to these must be joined the 
faithful and prudent exercise of the church discipline. The 
church may send forth her ten thousand heralds, to cry 
against slavery, ot any other sin; yet if it is known all the 
world over, that she uniformly receives into her communion, 
persons notoriously guilty of that very sin, and continues 
them in it, without censure, her preaching will have very 
little effect; except it be to scandalize herself, and prejudice 
sinners against her religion. We therefore conclude, that it 
is the duty of all churches, and church courts, to exclude 
from their communion, all those who conlmue to buy, sell, or 



11 

liold slaves for the sake of gain, when convicted of the same. 
But here we are met by a host of questions and objections, 
which we shall endeavour fairly to answer. 

Probably the first question that will be asked, is: why put 
in the limiting clause,— for the sake of gain? We answer, 
because in the present state of atfairs, we can conceive of a 
few cases in which men may buy or hold slaves, from mo- 
tives of humanity; and we know not but a case might occur, 
in which a man might sell one from the same motives, 
although we think it very doubtful; and we sliould be as 
unwilling to exclude from the communion of saints, the be- 
nevolent, and humane, as to receive the covetous, and un- 
merciful. Our meaning will be made plain, by stating one 
or two cases. A benevolent man, who abhors the practice 
of slavery, may buy a slave, purely for the sake of emanci- 
pating him. Another, who is not rich, may, at the request of 
a slave, purchase him from a cruel master; on condition that 
the slave will refund the price in service, or otherwise. 
Another who has by inheritance from his father, or in some 
other way, become|_possessed of a number of slaves, may coij- 
linue to hold them, not because he wishes to make a gain of 
them, or is really profited by them, but merely because they 
are unable to provide for themselves, and unwilhng to go 
from him. Now, to meet these and other similar cases, 
which may exist, or occur, we wse the limiting clause. 

But here it will be objected, that this limitation v^ill ren- 
der the rule diificult of application, and afford to hypocritical 
slave dealers an opportunity of deceiving the church, by plead- 
ing excuses for their conduct, which have no real existence. 
This we readily admit, but it cannot be helped; nor is it any 
reason, why the exception should not be made. This same 
difficulty attends the application of many other rules; yea, 
almost all rules have their exceptions. As forlnstance, it is 
said, in the law of the Lord, ''The seventh day is the Sabbath 
of the Lord thy God, in it thou shalt not do any work. Yet 
our Saviour, who is Lord of the Sabbath, has clearly taught 
us, that works of necessity and mercy are excepted; and we 
in our confession of faith and catechisms, have recognized 
the exception, and all our church courts act on that principle. 
Now when the Saviour vmdicated the conduct of his hungry 
disciples, in rubbing and eating the ears of corn, on the Sab- 
bath day; when he admitted the lawfulness of /eac^zW an ox 



12 

or an ass to watering; and of pulling a sheep out of a pit, 
into which he had fallen, on the Sabbath; he knew perfectly 
that these exceptions would be abused; that many would 
plead necessity, or mercy, for profaning the Sabbath, when no 
such motives for their conduct existed; and that in this way, 
much difficulty would arise in the exercise of the church dis- 
cipline, and many guilty persons would escape deserved cen- 
sure; yet he did not on that account, conceal the truth; 
neither should we in the case before us, although we have no 
doubt, it will be abused. The church, like every thing else, 
in this world, is in an imperfect state; nor is it the design of 
the Saviour, that a perfect separation should be made between 
the tares and the wheat, until the day of judgment. Let both 
groiD together until the harvest. Yet this is no reason why 
ihe church should not bear a public testimony against 
all sin, by eqciuding from her communion, such as are noto- 
riously guilty of trampling on the divine lavi'. Besides, we are 
not of opinion that the exercise of discipline, according to 
the rule proposed, would be attended witth so much difficulty 
as some people imagine. The nature of slavery is such, that 
when men deal in slaves, from pure principles of humanity, it 
is generally done in such a way, and under such circumstan- 
ces, that the principle is manifest to all their acquaintances; 
and on the other hand, when it is do*e merely for the sake of 
gain, it would generally be difficult to invent even a plausible 
excuse. Moreover, dealing in slaves, in its very best form, 
has so much of the appearance of evil, that it is to be pre- 
sumed, that every honest man who had any thing to do in it, 
will even court a fair investigation of his conduct. 

Here we are met by another objection, which, we hope, is 
not made by very many in the present day: yet is still in the 
mouths of a few. It is said ; that to make slavery a term of 
cor/imunion, would be to interfere with civil government, and 
with the civil rights of men. This objection has no founda- 
tion in fact. No civil government, of which we have any 
knowledge, enjoins it on men to hold slaves; and if any 
one should, it would be a loud call to every citizen, to say, 
with the Apostles : Whether ice should obey God rather than 
men, judge ye. So far is our general government from any 
thing of the kind, that she prohibits the importation of slaves, 
under the highest penalty. Many of the states too prohibit the 



13 

importation of slaves, for sale; while they all permit their 
exportation. It is evident therefore, that, in our country, no 
one is required, by law, to buy, sell, or hold slaves: but is 
merely permitted so to do if he pleases. Neither is any one 
compelled, by law,~k^be a member of a church: but is merely 
permitted, in that maher also to do as he pleases. Suppose 
then that the church shduld exclude, from her communion, 
all slave-holders; how w^)uld this interfere, either with the 
rights of the citizens, or with the law, which protects him in 
the enjoyment of those rights? In no way.' The church 
merely gives the man his choice, whether he will belong to 
her communioUjOr be a slave-holder. If he choose the latter, 
she leaves him at perfect liberty to enjoy his slaves as peace- 
ably as he can; without, in the least, depriving him of the 
protection of civil government. These remarks are applica- 
ble to every other case, in which any practice is permitted by 
civil government; while the church makes it a term of com- 
munion. They are applicable to intemperance, attending 
the theatre, attending balls, buying lottery tickets, &c. And 
should the civil government sanction duelling, or piracy; the 
church by excluding the duellist, or pirate from her commu- 
nion, would deprive him of no civil right; or, in the least, 
interfere with civil government. 

But we must now meet an objection, which professes to be 
drawn from the Bible. For strange and paradoxical as it 
may seem; althougii but few men wi'l, now, pretend to prove 
from the scriptures that slavery is not a sin : yet many pretend 
to find evidence there, that it is a privileged kind of sin, 
against v/lrich the ministers of the gospel should say nothhig; 
and of which, church judicatories have no right to take cog- 
nizance. Hear the argument. We ought to folloiv the 
example of the Apostles. Slavery existed^ in their days. 
They said nothing against it; and did not make it a term 
of communioi) . Nov^ were we to admit the truth of every pro- 
position in this argument, we would be obliged, either to give 
up the point; or to show that slavery, in the days of the 
Apostles, was a very different thing from what it now is: but 
so it happens, that we are under no necessity of doing either 
the one or the other. Let us then examine the rLigument, 
and allow it all its weight. 

Thai Apostolick example is decisive, in this ca?e. a^ in 
every other, we cheerfully admit. That slavery fcAisled in 
B 



14 

the woild, in the time of the Apostles, we also admit. But, 
that they said nothing against it; or that it existed in the 
christian church, we cannot admit. Let it be proved that 
only one of the Apostles was a slave-holder; and vve|willdrop 
our pen. Let it be shown that they said nothing against 
slavery; and we will be silent, on- that subject. Let it be 
made appear, that they admitted to the communion of the 
church, slaveh-oiders, continuing such, and we will give up 
the point. But we believe that none of these things can be 
proved ; and that to assert either of them, is a gross slander, 
on the Apostles, and their religion. If the Apostles did not 
preach against slavery, surely they were the most unfaithful 
men that ever lived. Hear their commission. "Thatrepen^ 
tance and remission of sins, should be preached to all nations." 
And again; '^Teaching ihem to observe all things, whatsoever 
1 have commanded you. Now, the Saviour had commanded 
ihem "to love their neighbour as themselves: to do to others, 
as they would that others should do to them :" to keep at the 
greatest distance from any thing like tyranny or despotism; 
and what they had heard "in the ear, in closets, to proclaim 
upon the house tops." Now, with such a commisi-ion before 
them; and such commands sounding in their ears; how 
would they be faithful and say nothing against slavery? 
Were these men cowards? — Were they men pleasers? Did 
they shun their duty, to keep friends with all parties? We 
have not mucli of their sermons; neither has the objector: 
but let him read their commissions again: — let him read the 
character, given of them in the acts of the AposHes: — let 
him read those scraps of their sermons which are there re- 
corded : — let him listen to one of them wliile he says boldly, 
in the presence of those who had been, fpr three years, his 
constant hearers: "i have not shunned to declare unto you 
all the counsel of God:*' and again; "If I yet pleased men, 
J should not be the servant of Christ :" and then, let him say, 
if he can, that the x\posiles did not preach against every sin, 
slavery not excepted. 

Again, if the Apostles did not preach against slavery; 
surely their sermons must have been very inconsistent with 
their writings. Read their epistles; addressed, not to the 
world, but to christian churches, and christian ministers, and 
christian pe.ople, scattered through different nations; and see 
if they do not condemn slavery. Do they not speak against 



15 

*^covetousness, unrighteousness, unntiercif illness, oppression, 
maastealing, a heart exercised with covetous practices, &^c."" 
Did not Paul say: "the covetous, and the unrighteous cannot 
inherit the kingdom of God?" Did he not write to tlie 
Coiinthians: »'if any one that is called a brother, be covet- 
ous, or an extortioner, to keep no company with him, no not 
so much as to eat?" And is all this saying nothing against 
slavery? If buying, and selling innocent, unoffending men; 
or holding them in bondage, purely for the sake of gain, be 
not unrighteous; and an evidence of a heart exercised with 
covetous practices, we would Ne glad to know what is; or 
what the Apostle could have meant. As well might wg say 
that the Apostles said nothing against gambling, duelling, pi- 
racy or treason, as that they did not condemn slavery 

Now we ask: Is it probable? Is it credible? Is it possible, 
that the Apostles, acting under the commission which they 
liad received, and writing as they did, to the churches, which 
Ihey planted and watered, would admit to the communion of 
4hose churcheSj W^n who continued to patronise slavery? To 
us, the thing appears utterly incrudible. As Soon would we 
believe, that they admitted the racers, and wrestlers, and pu- 
gillists, and gladiators, who contended in the olympick games. 
These were sanctioned by law ; and they were condemned by 
the Apostles, no more than slavery, and in no other way. But 
we are told, that the Apostles, in their addresses to the differ- 
ent characters composing the christian church; addressed 
masters and servants. Very true, but what does this prove? 
Nothing; only that there were masters and servants in the 
church : and would not this have been the case, if there never 
had been a slave on earth? That some of those servants were 
slaves, we think not at all improbable: but that the masters 
were slave-holders, we have not a single intimation. The 
Apostle says nodiing like it; and we do very much question, 
whether, in the Apostle's days, a slave-holder ever asked ad- 
mission to the communion of a christian chuich. 

Now, it will be asked: was not Onesimus a slate; and 
Philemon a christian slave-holder? We ansvrer,no. It is plain 
that Onesimus was not a slave: but merely an indented, or 
liired servant. Had he been a slave, such as we hold in A- 
merica ; how could the Apostles, with any propriety, have said 
to Philemon : If he hath wronged thee, or owcth thee ought, 
put that on my account^ 1 will repay it? The Apostle's suppo- 



16 

:»ition would have been absurd. Let us try the case, by a sim- 
ple supposition,- suppose a slave, in some of the neighboring 
slave states, vi^ere to runaway from his master, and come to 
one of you: after he liad been with you a few days, you find 
out that he is a runaway slave: you persuade him to return; 
and by him, you write to the master, advising him to receive 
and forgive his returning servant; telling him, if the servant 
owes him any thing, and is either unabloy or unwilling to pay 
him, he may charge you with it, and you will pay it. What 
would the master think? Surely he would conclude, in a mo- 
ment, that you either intended to insult him^ or were entirely 
ignorant of the nattire of the relation subsisting between him 
and his servant. 

How then, comes it to pass, that so many wise men, have 
got it into their heads; and are so very confident, that slavery 
did exist in the apostolick churches? The true reason, we be- 
lieve, is this : they now see many slave-holders in the church ; 
and when they hear ministers of the gospel, either from the 
pulpity or the Lord's table, addressing" ma«*©i-« and vot-^antc^y 
Jhey know that hf masters. Slave-holders are meant; and know- 
ing too that slavery existed in the world, in the. Apostles' days; 
they naturally conclude, that when the Apostles addressed 
masters and servants, they must have meant the same thing. 
Thus they are led c&mpletely to reverse theargument; and, in- 
stead of proving from apostolick example, what should be the 
practice of the church now: they in fact, reason from the 
present practice of the church, to what they suppose was the 
practice of the apostolick churches. 

Now some one, and perhaps a whole church session will 
object, and say, "the General Assembly of our church have 
never decided, that dealing in slaves is a sin, requiring the 
cognizance of church judicatories, and therefore, it would be 
improper, in an inferior court, to take any notice of it." Tq 
this we answer, neither has any assembly, that we know of, 
decided that this sin should be exempt from the notice of 
the church courts. Moreover, had any assembly decided 
in either way, the very next assembly migfht give a directly 
opposite decision; and in neither case, would the decision be 
obligatory on the inferior court; According to the constitu- 
tion of our church, the General Assembly have no power to 
add any article to it, or take one from it, witliout the consent 
of at least a majority of the Presbyteries. Now our form of 



17 

government no where pretends to specify all the particular 
sins of which church judicatories have a right to take cogni- 
zance, but leaves that matter just where it should, with every 
church court to decide for itself, by the word of God, See 
book of discipline, chap, l.sec. 3,4. 

Now, is dealing in slaves, for the sake of worldly gain, a 
sin, clearly condemned by the word of God ? — Does it give 
countenance and encouragement, to the most cruel and un- 
righteous traffick, that ever was carried on, in the world; and 
one which the civil governments, of almost all nations, and 
^even tlie pope himself, are endeavoring to put a stop to? Is 
it a covetoufi, unrighteous and wnmerct/w/ practice ? and do 
you not inflict church censure, on your members, for oth^r 
sins, less scandalous, and less heinous, without any decision 
of the General Assembly about them? Why then wait for a 
decision of the assembly, in this case? You will say: It is 
nery desirable, thai reformation, from an evil of so great ex- 
tent, and so long continuance, should begin with the supreme 
Judicatory of the church. Very true; but is this to be ex- 
pected? surely not: especially in a church, whose highest 
court is composed of delegates, from the whole body. Al- 
most every reformation, from any general corruption, has be- 
gun with a few; and it is to be expected, ti?at this v;ill always 
be the case. Had Luther v/aited for the glorious reformation 
from popery; till the pope and his cardinals had begun it; we, 
probably, had been, this day, either Tjlind papists, or ignorant 
savages. Let us then do our duty, and look to God for his 
blessing. 

Perhaps it will be said, by some: "We live in a free state; 
where slavery is prohibited by law and therefore have? nothing 
to do with slave dealers.'' it is true, we cannot hold slaves, 
in our own state; and we v;ould be tliankful that it is so: but 
perhaps we may have more to do, in this matter, than some are 
ready to imagine. We know not how soon, some of us may 
be removed to slave states. It may be too, that some church- 
members, who come to reside among us, may have left their 
slaves behitid them; to be sold; or to be hired out; or to work 
on their farms under overseers: while they live on the pro- 
fits. Or there may even be some who have their money em- 
ployed, in the odious slave trade, as it is, sometimes carried 
on from one slave state to another. Surely, brethren, we 
^ought to let those men know, and to let the world know; that 
B2 



18 

such characters cannot be admitted to our communion : and 
if such a notice, should only save us from having any trouble 
with them, our labour would not be lost. 

But we have one other objection, yet to answer: and al- 
though we fear, it is the very root of almost all the other diffi- 
culties, on this subject; our answer shall be a very short one. 
It is said : "If we attempt to make dealing in slaves a term of 
communion, we will create disturbance; and make a noise; 
and kindle a dreadful fire, in the church.'^ We answer by 
asking a few plain questions, which every body can answer. 
Shall we neglect our duty, because some people will make a 
noise about it? Was ever a reformation from any general and 
deep rooted corruption effected, without exciting some oppo- 
sition and disturbance? Did not Luther, and his little band 
of reformers, make a noise, and raise a smoke, and kindle a 
lire, in which hundreds and thousands lost their lives; and 
do not we all profess to bless God for their labours? Breth- 
ren, let us give no just cause of offence, to any one: but let 
us exercise ourselves, to have a conscience void of offence, 
hoth toward God and man, 

James Gtlliland. 



THE 

PRESBYTERY OP OHlLIalCOTIlE, 

TO THE CHURCHES UNDER THEIR CARE, 



Dear Beethees : 

As those who must shortly give account, we consider it our 
duty to address you, in regard to the following resolution, 
which, after mature deliberation, was passed unanimously at 
our meeting in September last: viz. Resolved, that buying or 
selling, or holding a slave, for the sake of gain, is a heinous 
sin and scandal, and requires the cognizance of the judicatories 
of the church. To one, who has but little acquaintance with 
our region, it would be natural to ask, what have the church- 
es in Ohio to do with slavery? The assumption is, that in our 
land of freedom, there are no slave-holders. Yet, scarcely a 
year passes without application for privileges in the churches 
of Ohio, by persons more or less involved, in this sin. It is 
possible, that within our awn bounds, there maybe professors 
of religion living on farms which were bought with the price 
of human flesh and blood; and that there are others who de- 
rive a yearly revenue, from the hire of slaves left behind them 
in other states, in the hands of unprincipled men, who care 
neither for their souls, nor their bodies, provided they obtain 
from their labours, the worth of their hire. It is also well 
known, that unthinking persons are almost daily tempted by 
advertisements of large rewards, to seize, and restore slaves, 
who are escaping from bondage,- notwithstanding the com- 
mand, (Deut. 23. 15, 16.) in that law to which slave-holders 
themselves, sometimes appeal : " Thou shalt not deliver unto 
his Master, the servant which is escaped from his Masier unto 
thee; he shall dwell with thee, even among you, in that place 
which he shall choose, in one of the gates, where it liketh him 
best; thou shalt not oppress him." It may be, there are a- 
mong you, brethren, some who are'guilty in these matters, 
and yet impenitent, if so, the sin of slave-holding is not 
only the sin of our land, and of our church; but it is our sin. 



20 

We wish to call your attention to three points embraced iri 
the resolution. We say — 

I. That buying or selling, or holding a slave, for the sake 
of gain, is a heinous sin. We say nothing about cases of 
involuntary and unavoidable slave-holding, if such do exist. 
We speak exclusively, of that which, whatever else may be 
pretended, is, in fact, the offspring of covetousnesSj or the 
love of gain. We consider it unnecessary to prove that it is 
a sin to rob a fellow man of that liberty, which men generally 
profess to hold dearer than life. On this subject, there is no 
diversity of sentiment among us. We hold it as a self evi- 
dent truth, " that all men, by nature are^ and of right ought 
to be, free.^' No one with whom we have intercourse either 
in the church, or out of it, is willing to be ranked with the 
enemies of universal liberty. Even the lordly owner of a 
hundred slaves, will tell you^ that he "hates the principle" 
of slavery. Much as he delights in the practice of trading 
in the bodies and souls of men, and depriving them of their 
freedom; he bales the principle. 

It is lamentable too, that those professors of religion who 
are most deeply immersed in the guilt of this sin, are often 
heard declaringj that they afe conscientiotisly opposed to the 
"principle," and they are loud in their lamentations, that such 
an evil should prevail among us. But brethren, do you weigh 
the import of your own acknowledgment, that slave-holding 
is a sin? Do you realise that it is nothing more nor less than 
an acknowledgment^ that it is a transgression of God^s holy 
law; that it exposes to the wrath of a sin avenging God, and 
that there is no forgiveness of it, but through the atoning 
blood of the Saviour? It would be an alleviating circum- 
stance, if we could believe that the slave-holder jeopardised 
no man's soul but his own. But it is otherwise. 

His sin is, 

II. A scandal in the scriptural s^ense of the word; it is a 
stambling block to others. If by things harmless in them- 
selves, such as eating meat offered to Idols, a christian might 
become chargeable with the blood of souls; much more may 
he cause others to stumble, by that which is, in itself, a trans^ 
gression of God^s law. It requires but a limited acquaint- 
ance with the world around us, to perceive that it is the ex^ 
ample of christian slave-holders, which keeps tjie slave^hold- 
ing world in countenance. They are compelled to draw the 



21 

inferenee, that either to trample on the rights of our neigli-^ 
hours, is consistent with the religion and example of Jesus, 
or that those professors who are doing so, are inconsistent 
with their profession, and they will sometimes draw one of 
these conclusions, and sometimes the other, just as they may 
find it convenient to quiet their own consciences, or gife vent 
to their enmity against the cross of Christ. We say there* 
fore, that, 

III. This heinous sin and scandal requires the cognizance 
of the judicatories of the church We mean, that Ministers 
and church judicatories ought to deal with this, as with any 
other sins and scandals — by preaching and other means of in- 
struction; or by the exercise of discipline; or whatever means 
the Saviour has given us, for the purpose, they are bound to 
bring the guilty to repentance, or exclude them from the 
communion of the church. That the church ought thus to 
take cognizance of every thing which is heinously sinful and 
seandalous, is an axiom in Theology, which no VvfrU informed 
christian pretence to Scnj. But stiti there are objectionsT 
for there are those who will claim the privilege of lording it 
over the rights of their fellow men. To be able to live in sin 
because they love it, and because they think it profitable, and 
yet to have nothing with which to sooth the conscience, and 
quiet their fears, appears to be exclusively, the attainment of 
Devils. There is one plea which we feel ourselves bound to 
answer, or be silent on this subject. We are told that slavery 
existed in the days of the Apostles — slavery of a very fright- 
ful kind — the Master had power over the life of the slave, and 
the Apostles prudently said nothing about it. That this sin 
did prevail extensively in the world, in their days, we believe. 
If we had no evidence of this in history, w6 should consider 
it probable, that men who under the influence of pagan des- 
pots were up in arms of rebellion against the Almighty, would 
of course be trampling on each other's rights. Men who hate 
their Maker, cannot love one another: but, that the Apostles 
said nothing about slavery, or, that it was tolerated in the 
church, is m^st untrue; and we feel ourselves bound to show 
that it is false. We cannot but remark, however, that it is 
painful to hear professed followers of Jesus, claiming kindred 
in their practice, with men, some of whom, were worshippers 
of Devils; and alleging a supposed silence of the Apostles, 
as a plea for living in that, which they themselves acknowl- 



22 

iidge to be a sin. It is this ptea of supposed Apostolick ex- 
ample, and silence, which has for ages, kept the consciences 
of slave-holders quiet; and sealed the lips of mmy Ministers 
on the subject, and in many parts of Christendom, has rivited 
the chains of the poor African. Jn our remarks on this sub- 
ject, let it be distinctly kept in view, we have not a word to say 
to Atheists, who deny the existence of any law of God, which 
forbids a man to deprive his neighbor of his rights; nor to 
reprobates, who deny that to trample on that law, is sin; nor to 
any man who refuses to be regulated by the Bible. Our con- 
cern is exclusively with those christians who acknowledge 
that slave-holding is a sin; but maintain, that owing to some 
peculiarity of circumstances, the Apostles said nothing about 
it, and therefore infer that we should say nothing. 
We remark, 

I. If it be true that the Apostles said nothing about slave- 
holding, that fact ought to put an end to all controversy about 
it. All orthodox christians maintain, that Apostolick exam- 
ple is just tis obligatory, as Aposiuh'-k p!«rtjpr. li k h-y the 
example of the Apostles, and churches under their care, that 
we are taught many of the important truths and duties which 
we believe and practise every day. If it can be proved that 
they maintained an habitual silence on the point in question, 
that fact ought to seal the lips of every Minister and christiaii 
on the subject; and every one who would open his mouth a- 
gainst slavery, ought to be dealt with immediately, as a scan- 
d lious person. 

II. To admit that slave-holding is a sin, and then maintain 
that the Apostles, from prudential motives, said nothing a- 
gainst it, is absurd in itself. It is just saying that they per- 
mitted iheir hearers to die unwarned in a damning sin : and to 
call this prudence, is only to give ministerial unfaithfulness a 
christian name. How did they come to say nothing about it, 
K they knew it to be a sin? VVas the popish notion of venial 
eins so fashionable among them, that they considered it a mat- 
ter of no consequence whether men repented of it or no'? Or 
did they suppose that their hearers were naturally so prone to 
repent of this sin that it would be a matter of course; or did 
they suppose it would be time enough, when they would get 
to Heaven ? We read in the New Testament, of their requiring 
of christians, to abandon things which were, in themselves, 
innocent, and to deny themselves of some important privile- 



23 

ges, from motives of prudence or expediency ; and to say that 
they ever counted it imprudent to abandon sin, or to tell men 
to do so, is just as foolish as it is wicked. We care not what 
you tell us of the peculiarities of their situation: it is In the 
face of all peculiarities, that God has said : " Thou shalt in 
any wise reprove thy neighbor, and not suffer sin upon him." 
And again, "When I say unto the wicked, thou shalt surely 
die, and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the 
wicked from his wicked way, to save his life, the same wicked 
man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood will I require at 
thine hand." But what was there in their situation, so pecu- 
liar? The most imposing account of the matter is this: "Jn 
the time of the Apostles, slavery \Vas every where, in Pagan 
countries, established by law — the rulers, and the great body 
of the people were slave-holders; and in order that Christiani- 
ty might obtain a footing and keep its ground, the Apostles 
prudently said nothing about holdiiig slaves." 

III. We consider this a gross slander on the Apostles, and 
the religion which they preached. No man of plain cornmoTi 
sense, can look such a statement fairly in the face, without be- 
ing confounded by its impiety and impudence. We know that 
the Jesuits undertook to convert idojators, by meeting them 
half-way. We know that Mahomet made proselytes, by put- 
ting polygamy and many abominable sins on the list of virtues. 
We know that pagans succeeded in propogating their S3^stems, 
by accommodating them to the taste of adulterers and drunk- 
ards. But it was reserved for tne advocates of slavery to tell 
us that even the Apostle- succeeded^ in propogating the reli- 
gion of Jesus, by compromising with the lusts of slave-hold- 
ers. Thus the Apostles must be put on a level with the vilest 
impostors; and the religion which is from above, must claim 
kindred with some of the worst systems on earth, and in one 
of their meanest features. But who does not know, that one 
of the distinguishing features of Christianity, and one of her 
chief glories, is, and always has been, her pure, uncompromis- 
ing spirit. Nothing so confounded infidels in the first ages 
of the christian church, as the fact, that a religion which 
frowns upon every impurity in man, and requires the absolute 
abandonment of every sin, should, in a few years, through the 
preaching of plain and honest fishermen, be able to number, 
among her sincere followers, almost whole provinces of those 
•who were once the vilest of men. They were constrained to 



acknowledge, that it was the Lord's doing, and marvellous in 
their eyes. But there is not so much mystery in the matter, 
if it be true that the Apostles bribed the world into friendship, 
by an undisturbed permission to make slaves of their neigh- 
bors. 

Is it credible, that under a proper sense of responsibility to 
their Master, they should preach against every other sin, and 
yet habitually avoid telling any man that it was a sin to make 
a slave of his brother? Can we believe, that while they en- 
deavoured, by the exercise of discipline, to banish every other 
sin from the church; the sin of buyiHg and selling and hold- 
ing their brethren in slavery, was permitted, like the "sacred 
bulls" among the worshippers of Juggernaut, to come and go 
as it pleased: and even when they found it in the church 
trampling on the hope of salvation, they would not disturb it, 
lest the powers of darkness should rise and drive them out of 
their coasts? We have heard of pagans, who sometimes wor- 
shipped the Devil, merely to keep him quiet. But that the 
Apostles kept the enemies of the cross quiet, by tenderness 
towards their favorite sin, is a slander, which for originality 
and malignity, has no parallel. 

We appeal to the whole history of the Apostles — to their 
behaviour in every instance, in which the will of man came 
in competition with the will of God. If the spirit of Chris- 
tianity be such a trimmer, how do you acquit tne Apostles 
of folly, in suffering so much persecution; and in dying on 
crosses and gibbets? We know why they were persecuLed, 
and v-;hy they died martyrs. Wherever they saw sin, they 
would call it by its own name; and wherever they saw a soul 
in danger of being ruined by it, they would speak out, 
though suffering, and even death should be the consequence. 

IV. To say, that the Apostles said noihing about slavery, is 
contrary to fact. They preached against it wherever they 
found it. This is quite susceptible of proof, though not one 
of their sermons can be produced. What did they preach? 
This question is answered by deciding another. What did 
the Saviour send them to preach? They were sent to |>reaeh 
the gospel. More particularly — their commission was, to 
preach, in his name, repentance and remission of sins. Of 
what sins did they tell all men in the name of Jesus to repent? 
For what sins did they tell them they would find remission 
in the Saviour's blood? Or did they purposely preach these 



25 

iiiings so entirely in the gross that their hearers could not pos- 
sibly understand the particulars? We have heard preachers 
reproved for preaching against slavery, by reminding themj 
that they had better preach the gospel — as if preacning the 
gospel, were preaching unintelligibly,- or, as if preaching 
repentance and pardon for a particular sin, were not preach- 
ing the gospel. If the Apostles carefully (or if you please 
prudently) concealed from those who were guilty of claiming 
power over the lives and liberties of their fellow men, that 
they had offended God, and if they never told them there 
was pardon for them bought with the Saviour's blood, how 
do you acquit them of the charge of treason against their 
Master, or of unfaithfulness to the souls of men? 

Let us hear the Apostle Paul's account of his ov/n preach- 
ing, in his farewell address to the elders of Ephesus. After 
reminding them that he had taught them publickly, and from 
house to house, testifying, both to Jews and Greeks, repen- 
tance towards God, and faith tov;ards our Lord Jesus Christ; 
and after assuring them that they would see his face no more; 
he adds; "Wherefore I take you to record this day, that I am 
pure from the blood of ail men. For I have not shunned to 
declare unto you all tlio counsel of God." Are we to be 
told that when the Apostle made this solemn appeal, the fact 
was staring him in the face, that in his whole life he had never 
told a man that he must repent of the sin of enslaving his 
neighbor; and that in the last day every soul to whom he had 
preached would rise up and tell him that throughout his 
whole ministry he had uniformly shunned to declare that part 
of Gou's counsel, which relates to the sin of slave-holding, 
and all that part of his counsel which relates to the pardon 
of that sin, through the blood of his Son. O Brethren ! it 
is a bad cause which cannot be defended without such "girds" 
at tlie Apostles. 

V. The Apostles do condemn slavery in their epistles, and 
in every one of their epistles. 

To prove this would be evidently gratuitous, we're it not 
that professors are never more inconsistent, than when advo- 
cating this sin. They them.selves acknowledge that it is a 
sin, and of course contrary to the Bible; for none but infidels 
have the impudence to pretend to knov/ what is contrary to 
the will of God, without the Bible, They are ready to ac- 
knowledge, at anv time, that to hold a neighbor in slavery is 

C 



26 

sin, and they insist that they are conscientiously opposed to 
the principle! And they will lament, as long and as loud as 
you can have patience to hear them, that such an evil should 
exist among us. If you enquire how they can live in a sin 
to which they are so conscientiously opposed; they will iell 
you a great deal about necessity, and their unfortunate situa- 
tion. But lest their having nothing better than the Hyrants 
plea,'''' should make you question their religion, they will 
undertake to prove to you from the Bible that it is no sin at 
all; and of course, so far as religion consists in being con* 
scientious, they have even more of it than the soriptures re- 
quire. It appears too, that the sol© object of their efforls to 
make the Apostles dumb on the subject of slavery, is to 
prove by their dumbness, that to live in what they acknowl- 
edge to be a sin, is really no sin. They are willing to be 
shamefully inconsistent with themselves, they are willing that 
the Apostles should be like those watchmen whom the Proph- 
et Isaiah styles dumb dogs that cannot bark; they are willing 
to risk the consequence of dying without repentance, and 
without asking forgiveness of an acknowledged sin; but they 
are not willing to pan with their slaves.* 

* To appeal to the law of Moses to justify slavery, as it ex- 
ists among us, betrays either great ignorance of that law, or 
great want of common henesty. The term slafve, is not found 
in the Old Testament, excepting, in Jer. 2. 14. and there it 
is a mere supplement inserted by the translators. It is useless 
to labor, as some have done, to prove that the lust for slave- 
holding did exist in Israel; and that they sometimes deprived 
their neighbors of their just freedom. The very threalenings 
of God's wrath, on account of that sin, sufficiently establishes 
the fact. But, to make the wickedness of the church the in- 
terpr«ter of the Bible, or the rule of our faith, is setting up a 
worse pope than the one at Rome. By attending to Lev. 25 
and Deut. 15, &c,, we may ascertain what kind of servitude 
the law allowed in Israel. It appears from these, and other 
passages, to have been common, both for Israelites and Hea- 
thens, to become poor, and to be sold. But there was to be a 
great difference betv.'een them. The Hebrew servants must 
not be ruled with rigour; that is, they must not be put to 
drudgery or menial offices. They must be as companions in 
the family: or as hired servants, or sojourners. Ihey must 



27 

We say the Apostles do condemn slavery, in every one of 
their epistles. But let us settle a question. Are we to ex- 
pect in their writings an express prohibition of every thing 

not serve more than six years: In the seventh year, and in the 
year of jubilee, they must go out free, liberally furnished by 
their Masters. But the bond servant, from the heathen might 
be made to serve with rigour — He might be sold or inherited, 
as any possession or property ; and he must serve until the year 
of jubilee. But how are we to understand (Lev. 25. 46,) "they 
shall be your bond -men forever." All, except Universalists, 
understand forever, as a definite term, whether.it mean eternity, 
or a limited portion of time. If it be here used to define the 
duration of this statute, it means the whole of the Jewish dis- 
pensation ; but if it define the length of the bond-man's service, 
it means the period of servitude which the law of Moses pre- 
scribed (viz) fifty years; or from one jubilee to another. That 
the year of jubilee, cleared the land of every thing like bon- 
dage, will be admitted, by every one who is nt)t the dupe of a 
theory, or something worse. "And ye sh«il hallow the fiftieth 
year, and proclaim liberty throughout all the land, unto all 
the inhabitants thereof; it shall be a jubilee unto you, and ye 
shall return every man to his possession, and ye shall return 
every man to his family," (Lev. 25. 10.) It was required (Isa. 
6. 6.) that all bonds of wickedness should be loosed, and that 
the heavy burdens should be undone, that the oppressed should: 
go free, and that every yoke should be broken. This jubi- 
lee which commenced on the day of atonement, was the type 
of that acceptable year of the Lord, which was to be ushered 
in, by the Mesiah's great atonement, when the gospel was to 
be preached to every creature, proclaiming spiritual liberty to 
all the captives of sin, and the opening of the prison doors to 
all that were bound. It is not strange that the Old Testament 
abounds with threatening^ against those who would not when 
they heard the sound of the jubilee trumpet, break every yoke. 
Such men were doing what they could to make the jubilee a 
false type, of the gospel jubilee. They were holding up to 
the world a heresy in regard to the merit of Mesiah's atone- 
ment, and the extent to which salvation should be offered to 
sinners. 

There was another regulation which prevented the land of 
Canaan from wearing the gloom of a land of bondage. Tho 



28 

which is sinful, in all circumstances? A child can answef 
such a question. A child knows that a Bible written in 
sucli a way, would be useless. A thousand volumes would 



law of circumcision and the passover, required of the Israel- 
ites, that the man bought with money should be admitted to 
the ordinances; unless, perhaps, he refused or was somehow 
diBqualifi&d. In that case, he was cut oiT from the congrega- 
tion of Israel. A man who became a proselyte of righteous- 
ness, by admission to these ordinances was to all intents and 
purposes an Israelite. He was a, child of Abraham ; a servant 
of Ihe living God and an heir of the promises. 

It is to this change in the condition of a heathen, that allu- 
sion is made by the term adoption, which like most technical 
terms in the New Testament, is Jewish in its origin, and is 
to be explained by a reference to the law and customs of Mo- 
ses. Whenever the bondman was proselyted, he was entitled 
to all the privileges of a Hebrew servant. The Apostle (Rom. 
c. 8. V. 15) seeras to compare the case of christians, who go 
back t0 the law for justification, to that of a proselyted ser- 
vant, who by apostacy from the religion of Abraham, is 
thrown back into the state of a bondman. "Ye have not re- 
ceived the spirit of bondage again to fear." Thus it appears, 
that excepting when persevering enmity to the God of Israel 
kept the bondman in bondage, a boudmaa according to the law 
of Israel was rarely seen ; a slave never. 

It w^ould o-ften be amusing, if it excited no feelings incon- 
sistent with amusement, to hear one who is a slave-holder 
from covetousness, appeal to the Jewish law. When you 
introduce the subject of slavery, he will assure you, that 
"there is no difference between us as to principle.^'' If you 
ii^sist that there is considerable difference, at least, as to 
practice, he will remind you that slavery is a very delicate 
subject, — one on which it is not prudent to talk much. If 
you contend that it is not more imprudent to talk about a 
thing than to practice it every day, he will quote Lev. 25, 46, 
as the charter under which he holds his slaves; and perhaps 
remind you that this is that ancient law, under which David, 
and some of the best of men lived, and perhaps inform you, 
that it was veneration for that ancient law, which induced 
him to practice somewhat differently from that principle, in our 
Yenerated declaration of independence, [viz:] *'th?it ail me^ 



29 

comprise but a small part of il. And yet invariably wlien 
nominal professors and lawless men undertake to fight for 
their lusts, they endeavor to take shelter under the letter of 
the law. The horse -racer, and cock-fighter, and gamester, 
and card-player, and frequenter of theatres, and ball-rooms, 
will challenge you lo produce the text where his favorite 
amusement is condemned. And if it be true that slave-hold- 
ing is not condemned by the Apostles, because you cannot 
produce the text where it is said : "Thou shalt not enslave 
thy neighbor;" upon the same principle, horse-racing, cock- 
fighting, and gambling in all its forms, and attending theatres, 
and ball-rooms, and a host of other vices, must be put down 
on the list of things not forbidden in the Bible. A moment's 
attention to the nature and design of the epistles of the New 
Testament, will show us what kind of testimony we are to 
expect to find on this or any other subject. The object of 
the Apostles, in these writings, was to exhibit clearly to all 
sinners, the way of salvation, and to furnish all christians and 
churches with a summary of their faith and duties, till the 
Lord shall come. They give us general principles, by the 
particular application of which, we are to know what is sin or 
duty in all the circumstances in whicll we may be placed. 
They leave the particular application of these general princi- 
pies, for the reproof of any heresies, or immoralities which 
may arise in any age, to the standing ministry, and to all 
whose duty it may be to read or expound the scriptures. 
They give us set discourses on those sins which divided chris- 



are born equally free." Ask him how he can live in the 
neglect of circumcision and the passover, and he will tell you 
that these things belonged to the law of Moses, and that law 
is i^ogated. Ask him why the baptism of slaves produces 
no change in their situation; contrary to the spirit of the 
Jewish law, and ¥/hy they are never gladdened with the 
sound of the jubilee trumpet? He will tell you again, with 
considerable surpirze at your ignorance, that these things 
belonged to the law of Moses, and that law was ahmgaieCl 
long ago. If you inquire, bow then, as an honest man, he 
can appeal to an abrogated law for authority to hold his fellow 
men in slavery? He will tell you v;ith some warmth, that his 
slaves cost him money^ and that they are his property by the 
laws of the land, and no man shall take them from him. 
Thus when the ostensible reason fails, you will get the true 
one, C''^ 



tians, and disturbed the churches in their ttay — sncTi as 6aiin^ 
meat offered to idols. They often dwell on those which 
are the besetting sins of christians, such as self-righteousness, 
and unbelief, and worldly mindedness. But those sins which 
are plainly condemned by the general principles which they 
have furnished ; those which all cliristians in their time abhor- 
red, and which were not permitted in the church even for an 
jjQur, — such sins as man-stealing, lying, and purjury, are not 
even named except when they had occasion to name them as 
things abhorred. 

The question then on this subject is this: Is there any 
principle laid down by the Apostles, which slave-holding 
violates? Is there any text, which when fairly applied, con- 
demns it? Is there any passage, v/hich impliedly forbids it, 
and from which its sinfulness can be fairly inferred? Our 
Lord himself has taught us that it is in this way, we are to 
learn some of the most important truths in the Bible. The 
Sadducees, the free-thinkers of their day; who professed to be-* 
iieve the five books of Moses, took precisely the ground, of 
the advocates of slavery. Because Moses had not said, in so 
many words, "the dead shall be raised,^' and because he had 
notlefl behind him any written dissertation on the subject, they 
maintained, that either he considered the resurrection a mat- 
ter of no importance, and prudently said np-thing about it; 
or, like themselves, he was a free-thinker. And so confident 
were they, of the safety of the position they had taken, that 
they had the impudence to confront our Lord. Our Saviour 
quotes to them the passage in the writings of Moses, where 
jt is said, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, 
and the God of Jacob, and, as a man who denies a doctrine 
that is plainly implied, or fairly inferred from the scriptures, 
is as really an infidsl as he who denies that whichis writte(i|l he 
charges them v^ilh ignorance of the scriptures, and holding 
an error, which is contrary to them. Is there any passage 
then in the writings of the Apostles, in v/hich we are taught to 
love our neighbor as ourselves? — to do to all men as we would 
that they sliould do unto us? — to do good unto ail men? — to 
be followers of Christ?— to be holy in all manner of conver- 
sation, as he who hath called us is holy?&c. &c. Is there 
any child of five years old, whose intellect is so feeble, that it 
cannot perceive in these texts, and a hundred such passages, 
any thing inconsistent with slave- holding? And is there any 



31 

minister of the gospel who lias iHiade himself such a master in 
the art of handling the word of God deceitfully, that he will 
undertake to show that such texts contain nothing which is in- 
consistent with men's making slaves of one another. The truth 
is, the difficulty is, not to find texts in which the Apostles 
condemn this sin, but to find a chapter in any of the epistles 
in which it is not condemned, either impliedly or by fair 
inference. This, together with the fact, that there are no 
set discourses on this sin, and no reproofs for indulging in it, 
shows the universal abhorrence in vvhich it was held by 
churches and christians, in primitive times. 

The place which the Apostles assign man-stealing, shows 
that they did class slave-holding with the abominations of that 
age. We hesitate in making a remark so common, and there- 
fore perhaps, so unnecessary, as that the receiving of things 
stolen, knowing them to be such, is by the laws of heaven, 
and the laws of every well regulated society on earth, and 
the unbiassed judgment of all mankind; considered a partaker 
with the thief. No honest man will deny, that he who steals 
a manj and he who receives him at the handgof the thief, 
and makes him a slave, are partners in guilt, and ought to be 
partners in punishment. No man, who has not been so long 
in the habit of trying to deceive his Maker, that he has out- 
witted his own consciencCj will ever imagine that his guilt 
is the less, because he receives the stolen man, through many 
hands, from the hands of the thief. 

We see then in what light the Apostles view the slave- 
holder, when they class the man-stealer, (I Tim. 1.9, 10.) 
with the lawless and disobedient, with the ungodly, the un- 
holy and profane, v^ith murderers of fathers and murderers 
of mothers, with defilers of themselves with mankind, with 
liars and perjured persons. 

VI. The Apostles often speak of slave-holders; but they 
never address them as christians, or members of the church. 
On the contrary, they treat them with marked abhor, ence. 
When we say that they speak of slave-holders, we do not 
mean that they wrote in English- butj that they use a term 
which is fairly translated, slave-holder. The Greek word 
tised in (1 Tim- 6. 1, 2. and in Titus 2. 9.) and other places, 
is Despotes. It is from this, that our English word Despot is 
derived. The word does not necessarily imply any worse 
idea than absolute authority, ft is used in a good or bad 



32 

sense, according to the person to whom it is applied. In a 
good sense, and with great propriety, it is applied to the Ivlost 
High, and is translated Lord. (Jude 4. Acts 4. 24. Luke 
2. 29.) The i\postie3 and other pious men- use it in their 
prayers to God, as the Supreme Lord of the Universe, and 
the Lord of life. In a bad sense, it is applied to men, who 
usurping the authority of the Almighty, claim power over 
the lives and liberty of their fellow men, and make them slaves. 
Hence the teim Despot, derived from it, has been from the 
first, a name of infamy. It is remarkable that this title is 
never used by the evangelists, as applicable to any one who 
lived under the lavv' of Moses. The Apostles use it as a title 
of men, who had grown up amidst the darkness and abomi- 
nations of paganism, in countries where there was no jubilee, 
and where there was not even a name for humility or mercy. 

We consider it as unfortunate that Despotes is translated 
Master, (though it can easily be accounted for,) and that 
therefore, in our English Bible, we have nothing to distinguish 
the Despot from the Kurios, which is also translated Mas-er, 
but designates a master of a very different kind. For the 
sake of distinction, we shall take the liberty of transla- 
ting the one Despot, and the other Master, in our quotations 
from the scriptures, and our remarks upon them. That the 
Despots were slave-holders; even the advocates for slavery 
will not be disposed to deny. They insist tliat there were 
such characters as slave-holders, and they will not insist that 
they were held in such detestation by the Apostles, that they 
were never once named. That Kurios, the other word which is 
translated Master, was not the title of slave-holder is abun- 
dantly evident. It is translated in different places Master, 
Sir, and Lord. It is the title by which the diiciples generally 
address the Saviour; and they were not such reprobates, as 
to use the word which would insinuate that they considered 
their situation under him, like that of poor slaves. When the 
Greeks, who wished to see Jesus, [John 12. 2L] used it, in 
their address to Philip, they were not so consumately polite 
as to wish him to consider himself a slave-holder, and them- 
selves as his slaves. The Apostle Peter, when addressing 
wives, (1 Pet. 3. 6.) on the subject of duty to their husbands, 
recommends for their imitation, the example of Sarah, who 
obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, (Kurios.) Even a trader 
in slaves would not infer from thisj that Abraham and all 



(jthei husbands were slave-holders, and that Sarah, and ail 
wives v.'ere slaves; and that when he is making up a drove of 
the wives of his neighbors for the market, he may complete it 
with his own wife. Yet this would be both good logic, and 
good divinity, if Kurios means slave-holder. Kurios, means 
Master of an indented, hired, or any voluntary servant. 

We have decisive evidence that the Despots v/ere the slave- 
holders. The Apostle, [1 Tim. 6. 1.] addresses the servants 
of Despots as slaves, and he addresses the servants of no 
others, as slaves. "Let as many servants as are under the 
yoke, count their own Despots worthy of all honor, that the 
name of God and his doctrine be not blasphemed.'" Servants 
under the yoke, is the appropriate name of slaves. The al- 
lusion is to the manner in which the Romans doomed individ- 
uals, and sometimes cities, and even whole provinces,to slaver}', 
by making them to pass under the yoke, the symbol of bond- 
age. If there is any meaning in names, we should suppose 
that when the term Despot is applied to any creature by inspi- 
ration, it would be a sufficient indication of his character, if 
we heard nothing more about bim. But the Apostle [in 1 
Tim. 6.1, 2.] plainly intimates that the Despots were unbe- 
lievers ; and that when they became believers, it was in the 
power of the slaves to refuse to do them serviqo, as servants. 
"Let as many servants as are under the yoke, count their own 
Despots worthy of all honor, that the name of God and his 
doctrine be not blasphemed, and they that have believmg 
Despots, let them not despise them, because they are brethren ^^ 
but vather let them do service, because they are faithful and 
beloved, partakers of the benefit." He was anxious that 
slaves or servants under the yoke, should, count their Despots 
worthy of all honor. In the 4th and 5th verses, he suggests 
the reason. A different spirit was inculcated by some teach- 
ers, "who were proud, knowing nothing, but doting about 
questions and strifes of words, whereof cometh envies, strifes, 
revilings, evil surmising, (fcc." Any one who is familiar 
with the epistles, recognises in this picture, the Judaizers, those 
troublers of Israel in those days. These men., Iiad been 
taught by their Rabbi es, that it was a sin for a Jew to serve 
a Gentile; and among Christians, they were inculcating a 
similar principle. They taught them to disregard every tie 
which bound a believer to an unbeliever. The Apostle had 
some difficulty in persuading believing husbands axid whes^: 



34 

that they ought not (o put away their unbelieving partners; 
and in persuading some professors, that infidelity in their 
rulers, would not justify rebellion. There were sufficient 
grounds for fears, then that some pious slaves might be mdu- 
ced to believe that it was inconsislent with the religion of 
Jesus to honor a vile pagan. It was easy to perceive how 
the name of God and his doctrine would be blasphemed so 
soon as it sli;ould be known that slaves were making the 
gospel a plea for rebellion. He therefore urges tiiem not to 
let any thing in their conduct be the occasion of reproach to 
the cause of Christ. Now let it be distinctly marked, that 
the Apcffitle was apprehensive that all slaves were in the 
same danger. Why ? Because they all had Despots of such 
a stamp that they might consider it a sin to honor them. 
They were all unbelievers. 

But from the 2d verse it appears that Despots did some- 
times believe. He here addresses servants that have believ- 
ing Despots. That they were a different kind of servants 
from those niider the yoke, is very evident from the fact that 
they are introduced by the conjunction de, improperly trans- 
lated and, instead o^hut. Any Greek scholar knows that the 
characters introduced by that conjunction are different from 
those preceding. IHhose in the first place were slaves, these 
were not The object of the Apostle's address is to persuade 
servants not to take occasion from their Despot's having be- 
come brethren, to dispise them, by refusing to do them service 
as hired servants, or in any other way. He does not enjoin 
them to do service, nor does he intimate that there was any 
law which required it: but he advises it rather. Being poor, 
they must serve somebody. The fact, which is obviously 
implied, is, that so soon as a Despot became a believer and 
put himself under the care of the church, it was in the 
power of the slave to despise him, and refuse to serve him in 
any capacity. It was then in his power to complain to the 
church, that a man who was now a brother in Christ was 
robbing him, not of a few dollars, but of that which out- 
vv'eighs all price — his liberty; and was chiming power over 
his life. Whether, a church under the direction of men, some 
of whom had been companions of the Son of God, and were 
full of the Holy Ghost, would sustain a brother in such a 
plea, and require the usurper to repeni, and sin no more, is 
easily decided. A church that will allow her members to 



35 

cheat their neighbour to the amount of a single doliar,is either 
grossly ignorant or grossly wicked. But the Apostle was 
apprehensive that slaves in the event of the conversion of their 
Despots, would act imprudently; that sniartiog under past 
injuries, they would, beside, claiming their liberty, insulting re- 
fuse to be employed as servants, and thus, not only leave a 
repenting brother in embarrassed circumstances, and throw 
themselves out of employment, but, worse than all, manifest 
an unforgiving spirit, and give occasion to the enemy to blas- 
pheme. We make a remark on the phrase, "believing Despots." 
As this is the only text in which believing, and slave-holding 
are found in such near connexion, much use will be made of 
it. We shall be told, that such a phrose as believing Despots, 
proves that they remained Despots after they believed. Let 
us apply this principle. The Apostles often speak of Jews 
which believe, and of Gentiles which believe. Does it follow 
that they remained JevvS, and GentileF, after they believed? 
We read that the dumb spakf, and the blind saw, and the 
lame walked. Any one knovws, that such phrases are often 
used to desi;^nate at once the person's past and present char- 
acter. So we use them to this day. We speak of converted 
gamblers and swearers; but we are never understood, and 
never wish to be undersiood, as saying that they swear and 
gamble after conversion. That no man remained a Despot, 
after he became a member of the church, is easily proved. 

The Apostles never address a Despot as a believer, or 
member of the church. They frequently address Masters on 
the subject of christian duties, and tell them how to treat 
their servants, [Eph. 6. 5. Col. 3. 22. and 4, 1 .] They never 
address their servants without addressing their Masters also. 
But, though they often address the servants of Despots, they 
never address the Despots, but as wicked men. Hov^r shall 
we account for this? How shall we account for it, that 
while they address all classes of believers, magistrates and 
subjects, ministers and people, husbands and wives, parents 
e;id children, masters and servants, and particularly notice 
slav€s, ihere is not a word to pious Despots? There were 
n^/ such pious men. Such were the views which the Apostle 
entertained of their characters, that he treats them with 
marked abhorrence. He never tells them how to manage 
their slaves for the same reaj jii that he never tells them how 
to steal 1 He never undertakes to regulaie a wicked thing. 



36 

An address to the Despots in any church, would have been 
as absurd, as an address to the man-stealers in the church. 
No such men were in the church. 

VII. All addresses to servants of Despots which are to be 
found in the New Testament, either plainly imply, or fairly 
warrant the inference, that the Despots were irreligious men. 
In these passages all the tenderness and sympathy of the 
Apostles appears to be called up. They seern to be bringing 
iuto view the most cheering considerations which the gospel 
furnishes to animate them to perseverance,- and to be setting be- 
fore them in most commanding array those that were calcu- 
lated to fortify them against permitting themselves to be 
driven into sin, by any hardships or sufferings. They speak 
as to men who were in the hands of sworn enemies to the 
cross of Christ. The Apostle Paul [1. Cor. 7. 20. 24.] de- 
cides the question whether a servant, not free, [which in a 
pagan country like that around Corinth was only another 
name for a slave,] might be baptised, or admitted to the 
church? "Let every man abide in the same calling wherein 
he was called. Art thou called being a servant, care not 
for it J but if thou mayest be made free, use it rather. For 
he that is called in the Lord, being a servant, is the Lord's 
freeman, likewise he that is called being free, in Christ's ser- 
vant. Ye are bought with a price; be ye not the servants of 
men." In the commencement of the chapter he gives notice, 
that he vyill now consider those things of which they had 
written to him. After deciding that husbands and wives may 
be admitted though their partners be irreligious,- he decides 
the question respecting servants, by this general principle. 
Let every man abide in the same calling wherein he was 
called. The Apostle never decides, as a case of conscience, 
a question with wiiich nobody's conscience was troubled. 
He takes up these matters as difficulties which had so balHed 
the collected wisdom of the church of Corinth, that they had 
written to him for a decision. The fact that under the Old 
Testament, a husband, or a wife whose partner was a pagan, 
would not be retained in the communion of the church, made 
it a question with the Corinthians whether such persons 
ought to be admitted to the privileges of the Christian church. 
The same disposition to judaizing embarrassed them with 
regard to servants not free. Had their Despots been believers, 
there would have been no difficulty; for the law of Moses 



37 

required that the bond servants of Israelites should be circum- 
cised unless they refused. But the situation of a slave, sub- 
ject to the caprice of a pagan Despot, was a different thing. 
We cannot but remark that the Apostles and churches appear 
not to have adopted the polite custom in some slave-holding 
churches, of refusing to baptise any slave, till he can pro- 
duce a note from his master and mistress ; thus putting his 
privileges, and so far as outward means are concerned, his 
hope of salvation, in the hands of persons, who are sometimes 
avowed enemies to the name of Jesus. Having relieved the 
church of Corinth from embarrassment by the general princi- 
ple, that it is only personal irreligion which bars adpaission 
\o the Christian church, he proceeds to address the servants. 
For it seems to have been a serious question with them, 
whether they ought to wish to be baptised. It would b^ 
natural for a conscientious slave to reason thus: May i, 
undertake to follow the Saviour, who have an ungodly Despot, 
whose commands will often interfere wilh the commands of 
God ; who not only from covetousness, but from enmity to 
the cross, will require me to profane the Lord's day, and for- 
bid me to attend the house of God, and, perhaps merely to 
vex my soul, will require me to attend him to his Idol's 
temple. The Apostle, as one who could weep with those 
that weep, tells him not to care for it, that he is a servant; 
but advises him if thou raayest be free use it rather. He then 
gives an important reason w.hy he should obtain his freedom 
if he could. "He that is called in the Lord, being a servant, 
is the Lord's freeman; likewise he that is called being free 
is Christ's servant." The sum is, that every christian wheth- 
er bond or free, m«st serve his divine Master. His must be 
the paramount authority. Aware that such a course would 
often expose to great suffering, and that the servant might 
suppose that his hard lot, would justify some deviation fi-om 
the path of duty, he reminds him that there can be no com- 
promise between Christ and Belial. "Ye are bought with 
a price, be ye not the servants of men." Considering the 
Apostle's sympathy for these servants, why does he not say a 
word to their Despots, about their freedom — or about permit- 
ting them to attend the h®use of God — or, about their having 
leisure on the Lord's day, to attend to the concerns of their 
souls. This would be a hard question, on the Suppositioa 
that any of them had the fear of God. But the answer is 

D 



38 

plain; Ihey were the very men who were not christians; and 
he knew enoi-igh of human nature to know that to talli to an 
ungodly man, whose heart is under the dominion of the slave- 
holding lust about mercy, would be like making supplica- 
tions to the wind. 

The Apostle Peter manifests the same concern for slaves, 
and the same abhorrence of their Despots. "Servants be 
subject to your own Despots, with all fear; not only to the 
good and gentle, but also to the Howard. For this is thank- 
worthy, if a man for conscience towards God, endure grief, 
suffering wrongfully. For what glory is it, if when ye l^e buffit- 
ted for your faults ye tcdfe it patiently; but if when ye do 
well, ye sulFer for it, ye take it patiently, this is acceptable 
with God. . For even hereunto, were ye called, because Christ 
also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should fol- 
low his steps: who did no sin, neither was guile found in his 
niGUth; who when he was reviled, reviled not again; when he 
suffered, threatened not, but committed himself to Him that 
judgeth righteously, &c. (1. Pet. 2, 18-23.) We presume no 
one will undertake to find christians under the naked title, good 
and gentle Despots. Q.ood is used simply to express benevo- 
lence, [t is used to express the benevolence of Barnabas^ 
and other believers, but it is in connexion with other phrases 
employed to show that they were believers. The good and 
<fenile Despots are here distinguished from the froward; 
whose characters and spirit are impliedly portrayed in this 
passage. Compared with the- latter, the former might be 
gentle, good slave-holders, and yet wretches as regards reli- 
gion. 

If this address of the Apostle was appropriate, we see 
what was the lot of pious slaves. When we think of what 
christians endured in primitive times, we generally think of 
only what they suffered, who were brought before Kings and 
Rulers. We seldom reflect on what christian slaves endured 
every day, from the hands of Despots, who had power over 
their lives and liberties, and were giving vent to their enmity 
to Jesus by tormenting those who wore his image. We read 
and talk a great deal aJ30ut the sufferings of missionaries in 
heathen countries now, but we seldom think seriously on the 
,condition of pious slaves but a few hundred miles from our 
homes, in countries where the laws of the land make it penal, 
publicly to instruct them, or their wives, or their little ones, 
where they cannot without danger of receiving many lashes 



39 

oti their bare backs be caught at the place where they may hear 
the way of salvation; and where many professed christians, 
and some ministers, as unblushingly as if they bad stridden 
covenant with hell, will tell you by their conduct, if not with 
their lips, that it would be improper to give them the Bible. 
But the Apostle, like one who was in the habit of thinking of, 
and sympathizing with his brethren, who were in slavery, ad- 
dresses them more particularly than any other class of chris- 
tians — as those who now had to endure the very brunt of the 
sufferings of the times for Christ's sake — as people who were 
buffeted, and suffering wrongfully, and enduring grief for well 
doing, and for conscience toward God. Like one who ^vas 
trembling for the issue of their christian warfare, he urges 
them to perseverance by reminding them of what Jesus en- 
dured for them when he bore our sins in his own body on tiie 
tree. He tells them they must walk in the foot steps of him 
whom no persecution could drive into sin. To shew them 
how they must bear evil treatment, he sets before them the 
last scene of the Saviour's sufferings. " Who when he was 
reviled, reviled not again ; when he suffered he threaiened not, 
but committed himself to Him who judgeth righteously." This 
according to an inspired Apostle, must be the spirit of a chris- 
tian slave. But, there are those who will tell us the Apostles 
"were too prudent to manifest much of this spirit themselves, 
that they would risk letting their hearers go down to heil by 
thousands, rather than displease any one by telling him to re- 
pent of enslaving his neighbor. The truth is, the slave-hold- 
ing spirit is a fie'nd like spirit. It can trample on the authori- 
ty and laws of God, and trample under foot, the rights of man, 
and stab the character of the Apostles, v,^hen their example 
rebukes it, and sneer at the littleness of the man who is less 
daring; and in the mean time, talk about liberty and reJiqion 
and conscience, and the example of the holy Apostles. How 
does it come to pass, that the Apostle divides despots into oniy 
two classes, those who are good, and gentle, and those who 
were froward. Why does he not give tlie pious slave-holder, 
a word of exhortation and instruction? He did not believe 
there were such men on earth. The man who can get along 
pleasantly to himself in the exposition of the epistles, and 
maintain that the Apostles manifested no disapprobation of 
the sin of slave-holding, or that they received into the church, 
those who were living in this sin, must be possessed of some 
qualities which no wise and honest man will envv. 



4o 

No man, who carefully and prayerfully examines the scrip- 
tures (which are the only rule of our faith and practice) will 
hesitate to say that he who buys or sells, or, for the sake of gain 
holds a slave, is guilty of a heinous sin and scandal of which 
the judicatories of the church ought to take cognizance. We 
entreat yon brethren to regard no authority on this, or any oth- 
er question of faith and duty, but the authority of God's word. 
As to the decision of any Theologian, or moral Philosopher, 
who by some theological or philosophical process, will under- 
take to decide what God ought to say, instead of shewing 
what he has said in his word ; to treat such decisions with con- 
tempt, is a duty which God requires. Our Lord peremptorily 
demands of all his followers, that they call no man Master, 
that they remember that they have one Master who is in Heav- 
en — that they search the scripture daily. 

That the sin of slave-holding should get into the church, 
and that it should long hold a place there, under the pretence 
of Apostolick patronage, is neither a new thing under the sun, 
nor a thing for which it is difficult to account. It only proves 
with what facility any sentiment can gain admittance mto 
the creeds of men, provided it v^^ill smile on their covetbus- 
ness. The church has in every age looked back with amaze- 
ment and grief, on something in the preceding age, whichy 
though it passed for christian, was contrary both to the letter 
and the«pirit of the gospel. Long before the millenium is 
over, and perhaps long before it arrives, it will be matter of 
astonishment, that the Americans, who more loudly than any 
©ther people on earth, asserted that liberty was the unaliena- 
ble right of man, and that all men by nature are, and of right 
ought to be free, and maintained this position at the hazzard 
©f their lives; and at the expense of much blood and treas- 
ure; notwithstanding this, held millions of their fellow men 
in the most abject and cruel slavery. But will it not make 
the ears of them that hear it tingle, that christians themselves 
were at the head of this iniquity? That they quieted the 
scruples and fears of the world around them, by maintaining 
from the scriptures, that it was not contrary to the will of God 
the Saviour. Will not their very souls sicken, when they 
hear that one of the last things which many aged christians 
did, on earth, was to strengthen themselves to sit up in their 
death-bed to write the names of those who were to succeed 
fhem in keeping in slavery a number of their fellow men^ 



41 

with Iheir wives and their children; many of whom were 
bought with their Saviour's blood, and v^ere his sincere and 
humble followers. Will they not be utterly confounded when 
they learn that many professors did this with a steady hand, 
at the moment when they knew they were about to step into 
the immediate presence of God their judge. 

We feel, brethren, that we have sinned in so long holding our 
peace on this subject. It is, we trust, with smcere sorrow for 
our past neglect, that we have resolved that in deciding on all 
future applications for privileges, and in the exercise of dis- 
cipline, as regards those who are already in our communion, 
we will consider the buying, or selling, or holding a slave for 
the sake of gain, a heinou.s sin and scandal. We calculate as 
matter of course on hearing objections. The sin of slave-hold- 
in g having been a long time in the church undisturbed, any 
attempt to dislodge it, will meet opposition. The enemy of 
souls will be roused. Worldly professors, like the craft at 
Ephesus, will be alarmed, and sincere christians, simply be- 
cause their old habits are shocked, will for a time join in the 
opposition. Like men just waking out of a dream, they will 
make objections which they themselves do not understand, 
and which after a little reflection, they will find to be so fool- 
ish, or so wicked, that they will be ashamed that they ever ut- 
tered them. We shall hear, that to take cognizance of this 
sin, would be tyrannical — it would injure professing slave- 
hulders — it would injure ihe church— it would injure the peer . 
slaves — it would injure the country. 

I. We should not by surprises lo near the course in question 
represented as tyrannical. The cry of tyranny is just as old 
as opposiion to the exercise of discipline. One of Satan's 
favorite, plans for preventing the church from using the raef^ns 
which the Saviour has put into her hands for delivering" the 
soul of a fallen brother frrm his grasp, is, to frighten nei* 
with the cry of tyranny, or to shame her by raising the cry of 
mercy. It is deeply to be lamented too,/ihat professors often 
become his tools in the work of opposition. By mysterious si- 
lence, or by whispers of tyranny, they often pursue the very 
course they would have'pursued, had tbey taken a vow to use 
their influence in hardening tiieir offending brother, or in 
dragging him down to destruction. We perhaps shall be asked 
— Is it not a credible profession of faith in the Saviour, which 
entitles a man to privilege.^' in the ch'.irch'? And is it not a 
D2 



42 

tyrannical exercise of discipline to exclude a man because 
owing to the weakness of his taith, he is conscientious as to 
soniG things which you percieve to be contrary to the scrip- 
tures? All this may be true, but it is nothing to the purpose. 
It will be time enough to talk of this, when we meet a man who 
is a slave-holder, not for the sake of gain, but for conscience 
sake. Will any n>an say that he is conscientiously covetous, 
that it is his conscience which prompts him to rob his neigh- 
bors of their rights — and that his conscience will not permit 
him to abandon a sin, greater than sins for which hundreds 
have been hanged? On this subject, we have nothing to do, 
with weak brethren and tender consciences. The simple en- 
quiry now is, whether the legitimate and proper exercise of 
discipline, to bring a professor to repentance of a sin, in which 
he lives, for the sake of gain, is tyrannical. That it should 
be so represented, and that efforts should be made to counter- 
act its influence in every case where a soul is at stake, is not 
strange. Satan will not easily give up his prey, and the cor- 
ruptions of christians will often enlist zealously on his side. 
But accounting for a thing, does not diminish its criminality. 
Will you say, that the means which the Lord Jesus has given, 
which he has commande<l his church to use, and which he 
has promised o bless, for gaining otfending brethren, are ty- 
rannical and cruel? Is it merciful, when you see your neigh- 
bor's house on fire, to look quietly on, till he and his famUy 
are congumed? And is it still more merciful, when you see 
him in danger of hell fire, not to say a word to alarm him? Is 
it unfeeling to tell hia^, he offends God — that he ought to 
repent of bis sin, and that through the intercessions of Jesus, 
there is pardon for him. Was it cruel in the Holy Spirit (1 
Cor. 5. 5.) to direct by the Apostle Paul, that when the offen- 
der resists all other means, he should, as a last resort, be shut 
out from the communion of the church, not for the destruction 
of the soul, but for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit 
may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus? 

11. It is difiiciilt to|see how taking cognizance of the sin of 
slave-holding, will injure slave-holding professors. Will it 
injure them, to save them from sin, and the second death? Or 
are you afraid, that rather than part with their slaves, they 
will abandon the means of grace, and perish in their sin? 
Suppose this should be the result — Has the Lord Jesus au- 
thorised you to compromise with their lusts? Has heempow- 



■MM 



43 

ered you to hire them to keep their places in the church, and 
to keep them in good humour, by permission to make slaves 
of their brethren? The accusation was once falsely brought 
by the father of lies, against a pious man, that if his maker 
would put forth his hand and touch his property, he would 
curse him to his face. Should this be true of any slave-hold- 
er, keeping him in the church, would neither do him nor the 
church any good. If it be true, that the slave-holding lust 
has taken such possession of his heart, that rather than aban- 
don his sin, he will abandon the house of God, it is high time 
that something should be done, and no change can be for the 
.worse. Excluding him from the communion is the very means 
which the Lord has commanded us to use for the salvation of 
his soul. 

But it will be i^aid, the course in question, will injure men 
in their property. The wealth of many con^sts in their slaves, 
and if they must give them their freedom, the masters will be 
reduced to poverty. It will require a good deal of the de- 
ceitfulness of sin, to enable a professor to use so frightful an 
excuse — For it is neither more nor less than this — I cannot af- 
ford to quit sinning against God. Were it consistent with 
Christianity, to live in sin for the sake of wealth, or any world- 
ly interest, the christian religion would never have been hated 
or persecuted — Christian churches in every land would have 
been crowded. But the doctrine which the Saviour preached, 
was, that the sinner must renounce his sins, though it should 
be like plucking out his right eye, or cutting off his right hand, 
or be cast into hell fire. The doctrine of the Bible through- 
out is, that rather than live in a known sin, he must take cheer- 
fully the spoiling of all his goods; and not count even his life 
dear to him. 'i'his thousands of christians have done, and 
this every real christian will do. There is not a worse heresy 
on earth, than that a man may serve the Devil, when serving 
God would be inconvenient, or expensive. 

[II. We arc told that taking notice of the sin of slave-hold- 
ing, will injure the church — will drive many members out of 
it, and prevent many from coming in. This is just the old 
cry, with which the Sadducees and Pharisees thought to fright- 
en John the Baptist. He must quit this rigidness in requi- 
ring repentance, and fruits meet for repentance, or the cliil- 
dren of Abraham will not be baptized, and then what wilt the 
Lord do for a people to serve him. He tells them the Lord 



44 

could convert stones into penitent children of Abraham, and 
would do it before a generation of vipers should be bapiized 
without a change. Such an argument is an appeal to that 
pitiiful thirst for numbers, which is both scandalous and ruin- 
ous wherever it is cherished. We presume that no christian 
knows what he is saying, when he tells us that the proper ex- 
ercise of discipline for the putting away of any sin, will in- 
jure the church. 

IV. A favorite apology among slave-holders is, "It will in- 
jure the poor Africans, to give them freedom. They are so 
ignorant and depraved, that they could not take care of them- 
selves; and the white people would cheat 1 hem, and they would 
become a nuisance in society." It is thus that some profes 
sors can dress out their profitable sins in such style that they 
themselves almost believe tnem christian virtues. This and 
many other apologies of the same stamp, every body has heard. 
They are just as old, as the lust for slave-holding; does any 
slave-holder himself believe, that it is from the pure principle 
of benevolence to the Africans that he holds them in bondage? 
Is it because he cannot think of their coming to poverty and 
hunger and nakedness, that he cannot let them go? The man- 
ner in which they are fed and clothed and treated, would in 
most cases answer this question. The simple fact that they 
will let no other man take charge of them without some hun- 
dreds of dollars per head, shews that there is not a word of 
truth in it, and that they themselves do not believe it. 

V. When men object to the church's taking cognizance of 
the sin of slave-holding, on the ground that the slaves are so 
ignorant and depraved, that they cannot be freed without ru- 
ining the country, they are only giving us another proof of 
the deceitfulness of sin. it Is a hollow attempt to make their 
covetousness pass for patjio-ism. We would say in reply to 
this shocking apology, that to talk of injuring the coimtry by 
obeying God, or serving the country by provoking hiin to 
wrath, is horrible. There is too much truth in the assertion, 
that a large- portion of the slaves are ignorant and depraved. 
An instance of a slave-holder who holds many slaves, teach- 
ing them to read and understand the Bible, praying with and 
for them, and in a word, bringing them up irj the nurture and 
admonition of the Lord, perhaps this coniinent cannot pro- 
duce. Generally they are permitted to grow up as ignorant 
ag their master's cattle, jiut will -slave-holders, plead their 



45 

svvn wickedness, as a reason why you should recognise them 
as christians, and lay aside the exercise of discipline. Will 
they tell you that in a christian land, and under the light of 
the gospel, and in-the midst of the means of salvation, they 
are not only holding a number of immortal beings in bondage, 
but systematically keeping them in such ignorance and de- 
pravity, that it requires the strong arm of a tyrant to keep them 
from being nuisances, or fire brands in society? And is it thus 
Ihey would satisfy you, that their names should be continued 
or enrolled as the followers of Jesus. It alters the matter but 
little to tell us that it is impossible for a slave-holder to in- 
struct and train his slaves to habits of virtue; for this is telling 
us that the slave-holding system is in kself a system of iniqui- 
ty, and that it necessarily involves the ruin of the souls that 
come under its iniiuence; and that therefore every slave-hold- 
er is living in habitual co-operation with the Devil. 

We know that in regard to many slaves this statement of 
what would be the result of their fleedora is slanderous. In 
spite of the negligence and examples of their masters, ana 
in spite of the slave-holding system many hundreds of them 
are pious and exemplary. But it would be strange indeed 
if after being reared in ignorance and with a wretched ex- 
ample before them, the execution of the laws of the land 
would not be necessary to keep many of them in order. 
They would have made but little use of their master's exam. 
pie if they would not consider themselves at liberty to kid- 
nap their neighbor's children and make them slaves. They 
would have but little sense if they could not perceive that 
to rob a neighbour of a few dollars, is at least as harmless as 
to rob him of his liberty. They would possess but little of 
the art of deceit and but little talent for mimickry, if they 
could not tell their honest neighbors that there was no differ- 
ence between them in principle, and talk about their conscien 
ces and lament their necessity and unfortunate situation. Bu- 
there is one consideration which should remove the fears o: 
slave-holders — when black men talk and act in this way the 
laws of the land will hang them,- or should they escape the 
gallows, they will not propose themselves as candidates for 
membership in the church till they reform. To corrupt the 
Africans by our example, and degrade them by slavery, and 
then plead their degradation as a reason why they should 
never taste liberty, is not only sinful, but superlatively meari. 






46 

How dots it c€me that slave-holders do not feel themselves 
bound to take charge of every ignorant and depraved man 
they meet? Does care for the Africans expend their stock of 
benevolence and patriotism? There is one fact which shows 
that all these pretences to regard for society and "our coun- 
try," originate in covetousness and sheer hypocrisy. Should 
any slave attempt to make his escape to some land of free- 
dom where he will never trouble bis master's country or even 
the United Stales, he will be pursued immediately with ad- 
vertisements of large rewards to any one who will seize and 
return him, or confine him in a jail. 

But Brethren — Though we have thus noticed some of the 
common objections to taking cognizance of the sin of slave- 
holding, or rather some of the apologies for that sin itself, we 
entreat you to remember that all apologies for disobedience 
to God are wicked. If slave-holding is a transgression of 
the will of God, any plea for continuing in it, is neither more 
nor less than a plea in Dehalf of serving the Devil rather than 
Ibe Holy One. 

The Apostle Paul in his epistle to Titus, (chap. 2. 9, 10.) 
charges him to instruct and comfort slaves, and tells him what 
to say to them; but only names their despots. " Exhort ser- 
vants to be obedient to their own despots, and to please them 
well in all things, not answering again; not purloining, but 
shewing all good fidelity that they may adorn the doctrine of 
God our Saviour. For the grace of God that bringeth salva- 
tion, hath appeared to all men «S^c." In the addresses of the 
Apostles to servants of Masters, and those to servants of des- 
pots, there is a striking difference. For the lot of the latter 
is every where supposed to be that of temptation, and cruel 
suflTering. He here supposed that they would be tempted to 
fretful and hasty replies, and hard pinched as to food and clo- 
thing, and often tempted to relieve themselves by purloining 
from the plenty of their lordly tyrants, and probably many 
christians much wiser than they, would suppose that they 
might do so withont sin. But besides the sin of so doing, 
their despots would say, the gospel made them thieves. Much 
therefore as he sympathized with them, he urges them to per- 
severance, in exhibiting the christian spirit through all hard- 
ships, and in the close of the chapter, he directs them for com- 
fort, « to that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the 
great God our Saviour Jesus Christ," We ask once more. 



47 

liow does it come to pass, that while we see the Apostles is 
their epistles tisiting the abodes of the poor slaves, sympa- 
thizing with them in their sulTerings, and cheering them in 
their discouragements, and telling them how to live, that they 
may adorn the doctrine of God their Saviour; we never see 
them spending an hour with the slave-holder? The slave-hold- 
ers were enemies to religion, and appear to have been men 
who were scarcely on speaking terms with the Apostles. 

When an inspired Apostle addresses men wholivein theslave- 
holder's sin — on the labours of those who are not paid for 
their services, he addresses them, not as christians, but as men 
who are living in other flagrant sins, and as men who are go- 
ing fast to hell, 'i'he Apostle James (chap. v. 1. 6.) addresses 
them, as a man standing at a distance would call out to an 
enemy whom it was scarcely safe to approach, or as a man 
WJio is knocking at a neighbor's house at midnight, would 
address him to tell him that his house was on tire. "Go to now 
ye rich men, weep and howl, for your miseries that shall come 
upon you. Your riches are corrupted. Your garments are 
moth-eaten. Your gold and silver is cankered, and the rust of 
them shall be a witness against you and shall eat your flesh 
as it were fire. Ye have heaped together treasures for the last 
days. Behold the hire of the labourers who have reaped 
down your fields cvieth ; and the cries of them which have 
reaped, have entered into the ears of the Lord of sabaoth. Ye 
have lived in pleasure on the earth, and have been wanton. 
Y^e have nourished your heart as in the day of slaughter. Ye 
have condemned and killed the just, and he doth not resist 
yon." Is it not strange that all the rich men at that time are 
addressed as wicked, and going to destruction. 

We must recollect that "not many rich were called;" and 
few, indeed, if any continued rich among the followers of 
Christ. Tlioiigh the practice of selling all their possessions 
and laying their prices at the Apostles feet did not long con- 
tinue, the spirit of it outlived the Apostles themselves. With 
such liberality did they contribute of what they had, to sup- 
port the poor, and for the purpose of sending the gospel among 
all nations; and so soon vas the rich christian stripped by the 
harpies of persecution, that there were comparatively none 
in the church, who had wealth lying by them in such store 
that they could be called rich. We must recollect that in all 
coantries where slavery prevails, the rich, who are ungodly, 



48 

are always slaveholders. Hence the rich were distinguished 
by three features. Instead of contributing to the cause of 
God, their riches were rotting — they were living in the slave- 
holders sin, on the labours of men whose cries were ascend- 
ing up to heaven, — and they were persecuting and killing the 
just. No wonder that the Apostle (Chap. 2, 1-7.) forbids any 
distinguishing marks of respect to men who would come into 
their Christian assemblies, shining in their gold rings and 
goodly apparel, with three such hateful features in their faces 
as those of a robber of God and a robber of men, and a per- 
secutor of religion. He forbids them to say to such, sit thou 
here in a good place, while they would say to the poor man, 
who notwithstanding his mean clothing, was rich in faith, and 
an heir of the kingdom, stand thou there, or sit under my foot 
stool. He forbids this, as a respect of persons which would 
be most offensive in the sight of God; and forbids it on thjs 
ground — "Do not rich men oppress you, and draw you before 
the judgment seat? Do they not blaspheme that worthy name 
by which ye are called." He must have an unusual stock of 
assurance who will tell us that one of those features above 
mentioned was to be seen in the faces of the men whom the 
Apostles recognized as sincere christians. And he must hav^ 
a large share of utter ignorance or moral turpitude who will 
tell us he is walking precisely in the footsteps of the Apos- 
tle James when he receives into the church men who are thri- 
ving on the labours of those whose hire is kept back by fraud 
and whose cries are entered into the ears of the Lord of 
sabaoth. To avoid the occasion of cavilling, we leave to oth- 
ers to say whether in the times of the Apostles the men who 
robbed God— and the slave holders, and the persecutors, and 
the blasphemers of the worthy name, were not the same men. 
But this we will say, when an inspired apostle sets himself to 
catch the features of men who are hurrying to perdition that 
he may hold up their frightful picture to all the worI3; their 
most prominent feature is that of the slave-holder. 

The very head and front of their offending is rioting on 
the labours of men who are defrauded of their hire, and have 
none to whom they can tell their sorrows but the Lord of sa- 
baoth. He calls upon such men to begin their howling now, 
for their everlasting weeping and howling would soon begin. 
And must we still be told that the Apostles tolerated the sin of 
slave-holding in the church, and prudently said nothing about 



II 



49 

it ? That we may believe this must common sense be a sin ?•— 
And must we not believe the testimony of our own senses 
when we read the Scriptures? Or must we eventually take 
the summary plan — take the knife to every stubborn text that 
will give unpleasant testimony. 

Brethren, if any of jou are guilty of this sin, as those 
who are set to watch for your souls we call upon you to re- 
pent. Yours is no venial sin. The fatherless and the widow, 
and the poor man and the stranger are characters whom the 
Lord has pledged himself to protect. And he has assured 
us in the strongest terras, that no man shall oppress, or im- 
pose upon them with impunity. Defrauding them of their 
just dues, and oppression in every form, are forbidden by such 
considerations as these. "Lest they cry against thee unto 
the Lord and it be sin Jtgainst thee." "It shall come to pass 
that when he crieth unto me J will hear for I am gracious." 
"If they shall cry unto me I will surely hear their cry and ray 
wrath shall wax hot, and 1 will kill you with the sword, and 
your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless." 
"The Lord your God is God of Gods and Lord of Lords, a great 
and a mighty, and a terrible, who regardeth not persons nor ta- 
keth a reward, he doth execute the judgment of the fatherless 
and widow and loveth the stranger, in gi.ing him food and rai- 
ment." Thus saith the Lord "ye have not hearkened unto me 
in proclaiming liberty everyone to hia brother, and every one 
to his neighbor." "Behold I proclaim a liberty for you, saith 
the Lord, to the sword, and to the pestilence and to the fa- 
mine; and I will make you to be removed to all the kingdoms 
of the earth." Be assured Brethren, when the Lord speaks 
he means the very thing which he says: and that which he 
h&s said is the thing which he will do. How soon he will 
say of the oppressed Africans in our land; I have surely seen 
their affliction, and have heard their cry by reason of their 
taskmasters; for I know their sorrows and have comedown to 
deliver them— We know not. But this you know, you must 
soon appear before him to give your final account. Are you 
willing to meet him in this sin unrepented of? Are you wil- 
ling that your children after you, influenced by your example, 
should live and die in their sin? Do not ask what can be 
done with our slaves? The very thing which the Lord cora= 
mands you to do is, to let the oppressed go free. Do no^ 
persuade yourself that you must die a slave-holder from pat- 



50 

liotism or benevolence. Calling a sin by a good name 
will neither diminish its guilt nor blind the eyes of the om- 
iiicient God. But brethren, it may be that you are not slave- 
holders and never were. This does not, however, settle the 
question, whether you have in the sight of God any guilt in 
this matter. One reason why the sins of a few individuals 
are sometimes visited with chastisement on the whole land or 
community is, the individuals composing that community 
did not use their influence to bring the transgressor, to re- 
pentance, and shame their sins from society ; and hence they 
are partakers with them both in the guilt and the punishment. 
If all who never bought nor sold a man, nor ever held one 
in bondage had done their duty, that sin would long ago have 
been banished from the church, if not from the world. But 
there is a great deal of professed hatred of shave-holding, 
which is little else than hatred of the Africans. Such ha- 
tred of slavery is accompanied with as little effort to melio- 
rate the condition of the Africans as to bring the slave-hol- 
ders to repentance. Let no one suppose that this is a con- 
cern of none but the officers and judicatories of the church. 
Affectionately to admonish sinners — to pray for them — to en- 
deavor to bring them to repentance and the knowledge of the 
truth — to pray daily for the blessing of God upon all the 
means which he has given for that purpose — to delight in pro- 
moting the temporal and eternal welfare of all our fellow- 
men, is the business of all who love our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Remember the exhortation which he has addressed to all his 
servants. ^'Look not every man on his own things, but every 
man also on the things of others. Exhort one another daily 
while it is called to day, lest any of you be hardened through 
the deceitfulness of sin. Brethren if any of you do err from 
the truth and one convert him, let him know that he who 
converteth a sinner from the error of his way, shall aave a 
soul from deatji and hide a multitude of sias. 



