Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/immediatenotgrad1838heyr 



IMMSBIAT^ 



NOT GRADUAL 



ABOLITION: 



OR, 



INTO THE SHORTEST, SAFEST, AND MOST EFFECTUAL 
MEANS OP GETTING RID OF 



BOST ON: 
PUBLISHED BY ISAAC KNAPP, 

No. 25 Cornhill. 

1838. 



^09 



The annexed pamphlet, written by Elizabeth Het- 
RICK of Leicester, England, was published and exten- 
sively circulated in 1824. It proved greatly advantage- 
ous to the cause of Emancipation in the British West In- 
dies. Until this time, Wilberforce, and the other 
leading abolitionists in Great Britain, had directed all their 
energy towards the abolition of the Slave Trade, under 
an impression that when this was accomplished the evils 
of slavery would be gradually mitigated, and the whole 
system would soon come to an end ; — in a word, they 
were gradualists. This pamphlet changed their views ; 
they now attacked slavery as a sin to be forsaken immC" 
diately, and the result is known. A limited edition was 
published that same year in this country, and within the 
sphere of its circulation excited so much feeling and in- 
terest as induces the belief that a republication will be at- 
tended with very beneficial consequences. It is com- 
mended to the attentive, serious perusal of the reader, as 
the same principles and duties that apply to slavery in 
the West Indies are equally applicable to that which ex- 
ists in the United States. 



I IMC 3VC S D £ A T IS 7 

NOT GRADUAL 



It is now seventeen years since the Slave Trade was 
abolished by the Government of this country — hwi SlavC' 
ry is still perpetuated in our West India Colonies, and 
the horrors of the Slave Trade are aggravated rather 
than mitigated. By making it felony for British subjects 
to be concerned in that inhuman traffic, England has on- 
ly transferred her share of it to other countries. She 
has, indeed, by negotiation and remonstrance, endeav- 
oured to persuade them to follow her example. But has 
she succeeded 7 How s.ioiild she while there is so little 
consistency in her conduct 1 Who will listen to her pa- 
thetic declamations on the injustice and cruelty of the 
Slave Trade — whilst she rivets the chains upon her own 
slaves, and subjects them to all the injustice and cruelty 
which she so eloquently deplores, when her own interest 
is no longer at stake 1 Before we can have any rational 
hope of prevailing on our guilty neighbors to abandon 
this attrocious commerce — to relinquish the gain of op- 
pression, — the wealth obtained by rapine and violence,-— 
by the deep groans, the bitter anguish of our unoffend- 
ing fellow creatures ; — we must purge ourselves from 
these pollutions ; — we must break the iron yoke from off 



the neck of our own slaves^ — and let the wretched cap- 
tives in our own islands go free. Then, and not till then, 
we shall speak to the surrounding nations with the all-com- 
manding eloquence of sincerity and truths — and our per- 
suasions will be backed by the irrcsistahle argument of 
consistent example. But to invite others to be just and 
merciful whilst we grasp in our own hands the rod of op- 
pression, — to solicit others to relinquish the wages of in- 
iquity whilst we are putting them into our own pockets ; 
what is it but cant and hypocricy ? Do such preachers 
of justice and mercy ever make converts ? On the con- 
trary, do they not render themselves ridiculous and con- 
temptible 1 

But let us, individually y bring this great question close- 
ly home to our own bosoms. Vv^e that hear, and read, and 
approve, and applaud the powerful appeals, the irrefra- 
gable arguments against the slave trade, and against 
slavery, — are we ourselves sincere, or hypocritical 1 
Are ice the true friends of justice, or do we only cant 
about it 1 To which party do we really belong 1 — to the 
friends of emancipation, or of perpetual slavery 1 Every 
individual belongs to one party or the other ; not specu- 
latively, or professionally merely, but practically. The 
perpetuation of slavery in our West India colonies, is not 
an abstract question, to be settled between the Govern- 
ment and the Planters, — it is a question in which we are 
all implicated ; — we are all guilty, (with shame and 
compunction let us admit the opprobrious truth) of sup- 
porting and perpetuating slavery. The West Indian 
planter and the people of this country, stand in the same 
moral relation to each other, as the thief and the receiver 
of stolen goods. The planter refuses to set his wretch- 
ed captive at liberty, — treats him as a beast of burden, — 
compels his reluctant, unremunerated labour under the 
lash of a cart whip, — why 1 — because we furnish the 
itimulant to all this injustice, rapacity, and cruelty, by 



PURCHASING ITS PRODUCE. Heretofore, it may have 
been thoughtlessly and unconsciously, but now this palli- 
ative is removed ; the veil of ija^norance is rent aside ; 
the whole nation must now divide itself into the active 
supporters and the active opposcrs of slavery ; there is no 
longer any ground for a neutral party to stand upon. 

The state of slavery in our West Indian islands, is now 
become notorious ; the secret is out ; the justice and hu- 
manity, the veracity also, of slave owners, is exactly as- 
certained ; the credit due to their assertions, that their 
slaves are better fed, better clothed, — are more comfort- 
able, more happy than our English peasantry, is now 
universally understood. The tricks and impostures 
practiced by the colonial assemblies, to hoodwink the 
people, to humbug the government ; and to bamboozle 
the saints, (as the friends of amancipation are scornfully 
termed,) have all been detected, and the cry of tlie na- 
tion has been raised, from one end to the other, against 
this complicated system of knavery and imposture, — of 
intolerable oppression, of relentless and savage barbar- 
ity. 

But is all this knowledge to end in exclamations, in 
petitions, and remonstrances ? Is tiiere nothing to be 
done, as well as said 1 Are there no tests to prove our 
sincerity, — no sacrifices to be offered in confirmation of 
our zeal ? Yes, tiiere is one, (but it is in itself so small 
and insignificant that it seems almost buiiesque to dig- 
nify it with the name of sacrifice)— it is ABFiTixMENCB 
FROM THE USE OP West Indian pro£>uctjons, sugar es- 
pecially, in the cultivation of whicli shivc labor is chiefly 
occupied. Srnall, however, and insignificant as the sac- 
rifice may appear, it would, at once, give the death blow 
to West Indian .slavery. When there is no longer a mar- 
ket for the productions of slave lahor^ then, and not till 
then, will the slaves be emancipated. 

Many had recourse to this expedient about thirty years 
I* 



6 

ago, when the public attention was so generally roHsBd 
to the enormities of the Slave Trade. But when the 
trade was abolished by the British legislature, it was too 
readily concluded that the abolition of slavery, in the 
British dominions, would have been an inevitable conse- 
quence ; this species of abstinence was therefore unhap- 
pily discontinued. 

'' But (it will be objected) if there be no market for 
West Indian produce, the West Indian proprietors will 
be ruined, and the slaves, instead of being benefitted, 
will perish by famine." Not so, — the West Indian pro- 
prietors understand their own interest better. The mar- 
ket, though shut to the productions oi slave labour, would 
Btill be open to the productions o^ free labor ^ and the 
planters are not such devoted worshippers of slavery as 
to make a voluntary sacrifice of their own interests up- 
on her altar ; they will not doom the soil to perpetual 
barrenness rather than suffer it to be cultivated by free 
men. It has been abundantly proved that voluntary la- 
bour is more productive, more advantageous to the em- 
ployer than compulsory labour. The experiments of the 
venerable and philanthropic Joshua Steele have estab- 
lished the fact beyond all doubt ; but the planter shuts 
bis eyes to such facts, though clear and evident as the sun 
at noon day. None are so blind as those vv^ho loill not 
see. The conviction then must he forced upon these in- 
fatuated men. It is often asserted, that slavery is too 
deeply rooted an evil to be eradicated by the exertions 
of any principles less potent and active than self inter- 
est; if so, the resolution to abstain from West Indian 
produce, would bring this potent and active principle in*- 
to the fullest operation, — would compe/ the planter to set 
his slaves at liberty.* 

* It has been ascertained that the abstinence of one tenth of the ixkp 
habitants of this country from West Indian sugar would abolish West la- 
^ian slavery. 



But were such a measure to be ultimately injurious to 
the interest of the planter, that consideration ought not 
not to weigh a feather in the scale against emancipation. 
The slave has a right to his liberty, a right which it is a 
crime to withheld, let the consequences to the planters 
be what they may. If I have been deprived of my right- 
ful inheritance, and the usurper, because he has long 
kept possession, asserts his right to the property of which 
he has defrauded me ; are my just claims to it at all 
weakened by the boldness of his pretensions, or by the 
plea that restitution would impoverish and involve him 
in ruin 1 And to what inheritance, or birthright, can 
any mortal have pretentions so just, (until forfeited 
by crime,) as to liberty? What injustice and rapacity 
can be compared to that which defrauds a man of his 
best earthly inheritance ; tears him from his dearest con- 
nections, and condemns him and his posterity to the de- 
gradation and misery of interminable slavery ? 

In the great question of emancipation, the interests of 
tioo parties are said to be involved ; the interest of the 
slave and that of the planter. But it cannot for a mo- 
ment be imagined that these two interests have an equal 
right to be consulted, without confounding all moral dis^ 
tinctions, all difterence between real and pretended, be- 
tween substantial and assumed claims. With the inter- 
est of the planters, the question of emancipation has (pro- 
perly speaking) nothing to do. The right of the slave, 
and the interest of the planter, are distinct questions ; 
they belong to separate departments, to different prov- 
inces of consideration. If the liberty of the slave can 
be secured not only without injury, but with advantage 
to the planter, so much the better, certainly ; but still the 
liberation of the slave ought ever to be regarded as an 
independent object ; and if it be deferred till the planter 
is Bufficiently alive to his own interest to co-operate in 
the measure, we may for ever despair of its accomplish- 



8 

ment. The cause of emancipation has been long and 
ably advocated. Reason and eloquence, persuasion and 
argument have been powerfully exerted ; experiments 
have been fairly made, — facts broadly stated in proof of 
the impolicy as well as iniquity of slavery, — to little pur- 
pose ; even the hope of its extinction, with the concur- 
rence of the planter, or by any enactment of the colonial 
or British legislature, is still seen in very remote perspec- 
tive, — so remote that the heart sickens at the cheerless 
prospect. All that zeal and talent could display in the 
way of argument, has been exerted in vain. All that an 
accumulated mass of indubitable evidence could effect in 
the way of conviction, has been brought to no effect. 

It is high time, then, to resort to other measures, to 
ways and means more summary and effectual. Too 
much time has already been lost in declamation and ar- 
gument, — in [)etitions and remonstrances against I^nfTiA 
slavery. The cause of emancipation calls for something 
more decisive, more efficient than words. It calls upon 
the real friends of the poor degraded and oppressed Af- 
rican to bind themselves by a solemn engagement, an 
irrevocable vow, to participate no longer in the crime of 
keeping him in bondage. It calls upon them to " wash 
their own hands in innocency," — to abjure for ever the 
miserable hypocrisy of pretending to commisserate the 
slave, whilst by purchasing the productions of his labour, 
they bribe his master to keep him in slavery. The great 
apostie of the Gentiles declared, that he would " eat no 
flesh whilst the world stood, rather than make his broth- 
er to offend." Do you make a similar resolution res- 
pecting West Indian produce. Let your resolution be 
made conscientiously, and kept inviolably; let no plausi- 
ble arguments which may be urged against it fi'om vvitli- 
out, no solicitations of appetite from within, move you 
from your purpose, — and in the course of a iew months 
slavery in the British dominions will be annihilated. 



9 

*' Yes, (it may be said) if all would unite in such a 
resolution, — but what can the abstinence of a few indi- 
viduals, or a iew families do, towards the accomplish*" 
ment of so vast an object 1 " It can do wonders. Great 
effects often result from small beginnings. Your reso- 
lution will influence that of your friends and neighbors; 
each of them will, in like manner, influence their friends 
and neighbors; the example will spread from house to 
house, from city to city, till, among those who have any 
claim to humanity, there will be but one heart, and oa@ 
mind, — one resolution, one uniform practice. Thus hy 
means the most sim'ple and easy, would West Indian slavery 
he most safely and speedily abolished. 

" But, (it will be objected) it is not an immediate, but 
Q gradual emancipation, which the most enlightened and 
judicious friends of humanity call for, as a measure best 
calculated, in their judgment, to promote the real inter- 
ests of the slave, as well as his master ; the former, not 
being in a condition to make a right use of his freedom, 
were it suddenly restored to him." This, it must be ad- 
mitted, appears not only the general, but almost univer- 
sal sentiment of the abolitionists ; to oppose it, therefore, 
may seem a most presumptuous, as well as hopeless at^ 
tempt. But truth and justice are stubborn and inflexi" 
ble ; they yield neither to numbers or authority. 

The history of emancipation in St. Domingo, and of 
the conduct of the amancipated slaves for thirty years 
subsequent to that event (as detailed in Clarkson's ad- 
mirable pamphlet, on the necessity of improving the 
condition of our West Indian slaves) is a complete refur- 
tation of all the elaborate arguments which have been 
artfully advanced to discredit the design of immediate 
emancipation. No instance has been recorded in these 
important annals, of the emancipated slaves (not the 
gradually, but the immediately emancipated slaves) hav- 
ing abused their freedom. On the contrary, it is fre- 



10 

quently asserted in the course of the narrative, that the 
negroes continued to work upon all the plantations as 
quietly as hefore emancipation. Through the whole of 
Clarkson's diligent and candid investigations of tlie con- 
duct of emancipated slaves, comprising a body of more 
than five hundred thousand persons, under a great varie- 
ty of circumstances, a considerable proportion of whom 
had been suddenly emancipated — loitli all the vicious hah" 
its of slavery upon than ; many of them accustomed to the 
use of arms ; he has not, throughout this vast mass of 
emancipated slaves, found a single instance of had he- 
haviourj not even a refusal to work, or of disobedience 
to orders ; much less, had he heard of frightful massa- 
cres, or of revenge for past injuries, even when they liad 
it amply in their power. Well miglit this benevolent 
and indefatigable abolitionist arrive at the conclusion, 
*' that emancipation, (why did he not say immediate 
emancipation ?) was not only practicable, but practicable 
without danger." All the frightful massacres atid con- 
flagrations which took place in St. Domingo, 1791 and 
1792, occurred during the days of slavery. They origin- 
ated, too, not with the slaves, but with the wliite and col- 
oured planters ; between the royalists and the revolu- 
tionists, who, for purposes of mutual vengeance, called 
in the aid of the slaves. Colonel Malenfant, in his his- 
tory of the emancipation, written during his residence in 
St. Domingo, ridicules the notion that the negroes would 
not work without compulsion, — and asserts, that in one 
plantation, more immediately under his own observation, 
on which more than four hundred negroes were employ- 
ed, not one in the number refused to ivork after their eman- 
cipation. 

In the face of such a body of evidence, the detaining 
our West Indian slaves in bondage, is a continued acting 
of the same attrocious injustice which first kidnapped 
and tore them from their kindred and native soil, and 



11 

robbed them of that sacred unalienable right which no 
considerations, how plausible soever, can justify the 
withholding. We have no right, on any pretext of ex- 
pediency or pretended humanity, to say, — " because you 
have been made a slave, and thereby degraded and de- 
based, — therefore, I will continue to hold you in bondage 
until you have acquired a capacity to make a right use 
of your liberty." As well might you say to a poor 
wretcii, gasping and languishing in a pest house, "here 
will I keep you, till I have given you a capacity for the 
enjoyment of pure air." 

You admit that the vices of the slave, as well as his 
miseries — his intellectual and moral, as well as corporeal 
degradation are consequent on his slavery ; — remove the 
cause then, and the effect ^yiil cease. Give the slave his 
liberty, — in the sacred name of justice, give it him at 
once. Whilst you hold him in bondage, he will profit 
little from your plans of amelioration. He has not, by 
all his complicated injuries and debasements, been disin- 
herited of his sagacity ; — this will teach him to give no 
credit to your admonitory lessons — your Christian in- 
structions will be lost upon him, so long as he both knows 
and feels that his instructors are grossly violating their 
own lessons. 

The enemies of slavery have hitherto ruined their 
cause by the senseless cry of gradual emancipation. It 
is marveUous that the loise and the good should have suf- 
fered themselves to have been imposed upon by this 
wily artifice of the slave holder, for with him must the 
project of gradual emancipation have first originated. 
The slave holder knew very well that his prey would be 
secure, so long as the abolitionists could be cajoled into a 
demand for gradual instead of immediate abolition. He 
knew very well that the contemplation of a gradual 
emancipation, would beget 2i gradual indifference to eman- 
cipation itself. He knew very well, that even the wise 



12 

and the good^ may, by habit and familiarity, be brought 
to endure and tolerate almost any thing. He had caught 
the poet's idea, that — 

" Vice is a monster of such frightful mein, 
As to be hated, need but to be seen j 
But seen too oft, familiar with her face, 
We first endure, then pit}', then embrace." 

He caught the idea and knew how to turn it to advan- 
tage. He knew very well, that the faithful delineation 
of the horrors of West Indian slavery, would produce 
such a general insurrection of sympathetic and indignant 
feeling ; such abhorrence of the oppressor, such com- 
passion for the oppressed, as must soon have been fatal 
to the whole system. He knew very well, that a strong 
moral fermentation had begun, which, had it gone for- 
ward, must soon have purified the nation from the foul- 
est of its corruptions ; that the cries of the people for 
emancipation would have been too unanimous, and too 
importunate for the Government to resist, and that slave- 
ry would, long ago, have been exterminated throughout 
the British dominions. Our example might have spread 
from kingdom to kingdom, from continent to continent, 
and the slave trade, and slavery, might by this time, have 
been abolished all the world over : " A sacrifice of a 
sweet savour," might have ascended to the Great Parent 
of the Universe, " His kingdom might have come, and 
his will (thus far) have been done on earth, as it is in 
heaven." 

But this GRADUAL ABOLITION, has been the grand mar- 
plot of human virtue and happiness ; the very master- 
piece of Satanic policy. By converting the cry for irrtr- 
mediate, into gradual emancipation, the prince of slave 
holders, " transformed himself, with astonishing dexteri- 
ty, into an angel of light," and thereby " deceived the 
very elect." He saw very clearly, that if public justice 
and humanity, especially, if Christian ]\i^Xiq.q and human- 



13 

ity, could be brought to demand only a gradual exter- 
mination of the enormities of the slave system ; if they 
could be brought to acquiesce, but for one year, or for one 
month, in the slavery of our African brother, in robbing 
him of all the rights of humanity, and degrading him to 
a level with the brutes ; that then, they could impercept- 
ibly be brought to acquiesce in all this for an unlimited 
duration. He saw very clearly, that the time for the ex- 
termination of slavery, was precisely that, when its hor- 
rid impiety and enormity weiQ first distinctly knoum and 
strongly felt. He knew, that every moment's unneces- 
sary delay, between the discovery of an imperious duty 
and the setting earnestly about its accomplishment, was 
dangerous, if not fatal to success. He knew, that strong 
excitement, was necessary to strong effort ; that intense 
feeling was necessary to stimulate intense exertion ; that 
as strong excitement and intense feeling are generally 
transient, in proportion to their strength and intensity, 
the most effectual way of crushing a great and virtuous 
enterprise, was to gain time, to defer it to "a more con- 
venient season," when the zeal and ardour of the first 
convictions of duty had subsided ; when our sympathies 
had become languid ; when considerations of the difficul- 
ties and hazards of tjie enterprise, the solicitations of 
ease and indulgence should have chilled the warm glow 
of humanity, quenched the fervid heroism of virtue ; 
when famiharity with relations of violence and outrage, 
crimes and miseries, should have abated the horror of 
their first impression, and, at length induced indifference. 
The father of lies, the grand artificer of fraud and im- 
posture, transformed himself therefore, on this occasion, 
pre-eminently, " into an angel of light," and deceived, 
not the unwary only, the unsuspecting multitude, but the 
wise and the good, by the plausibility, the apparent 
force, the justice, and above all, by the humanity of the 
arguments propounded for gradual emancipation. Ho 
2 



14 

is the subtilest of all reasoners, the most ingenious of 
all sophists, the most eloquent of all declaimers. He, 
above all other advocates, ** can make the worst appear 
the better argument ;" can, most effectually pervert the 
judgment and blind the understanding, whilst they seem 
to be most enlightened and rectified. Thus by a train 
of most exquisite reasoning, has he brought the abolition- 
ists to the conclusion, that the interest of the poor, de- 
graded and oppressed slavc^ as well as that of his mas- 
ter, will be best secured by his remaining in slavery. 
It has, indeed, been proposed to mitigate, in some de- 
gree, the miseries of his interminable bondage, but the 
blessings of emancipation, according to the propositions 
of the abolitionists in the last session of Parliament, 
w^ere to be reserved for his vostcrity alone, and every 
idea of immediate emancipation is still represented, not 
only as impolitic, enthusiastic and visionary, but as liigh- 
ly injurious to the slave himself, — and a train of sup- 
posed apt illustrations is continually at hand, to expose 
the absurdity of such a project. " Who (it is asked) 
would place a sumptuous banquet before a half famished 
wretch, whilst his powers of digestion were so feeble that 
it would be fatal to partake of it ? Who would bring a 
body benumbed and half frozen with cold, into sudden 
contact with fervid heat 1 W^ho would take a poor cap- 
tive from his dungeon, where he had been immured 
whole years in total darkness, and bring him at once into 
the dazzlitjg light of a meridian sun ? No one, in his 
senses, certainly. All these transitions from famine to 
plenty, — from cold to heat, — from darkness to light, 
must be gradual in order to be salutary." But must it 
therefore follow, by any inductions of common sense, 
that emancipation out of the gripe of a robber or an as- 
sassin, — out of the jaws of a shark or a tiger, must be 
gradual 1 Must it, therefore, follow, that the wretched 
victim of slavery must always remain in slavery 1 That 



15 

emancipation must be so gradual that the blessings of 
freedom shall never be tasted by him who has endured 
all the curses of slavery, but be reserved for his posterity 
alone ? 

There is something unnatural, something revolting to 
the common sense of justice, in reserving all the sweets 
of freedom for those who have never tasted the bitter 
cup of bondage, — in dooming those who have once been 
compelled to drink it, to drain it to the very dregs. 
Common equity demands that relief should be adminis- 
tered first to those who have suffered most; that the 
healing balm of mercy should be imparted first to those 
who have smarted most under the rod of oppression : 
that those who have borne the galling yoke of slavery, 
should first experience the blessings of liberty. The 
cause of emancipation loses more than half its interest 
when the public sympathy is diverted from its natural 
channel, — turned from the living victims of colonial bon- 
dage to their unborn progeny. 

It is utterly astonishing, with such an object as West 
Indian slavery before us, rendered palpable, in all its 
horrors, almost to our very senses, by a multitude of in- 
dubitable facts, collected from various sources of the 
highest authority, all uniting in the same apalling evi- 
dence ; — with the sight of our fellow creatures in bond- 
age so rigorous, — in moral and physical degradation so 
abject ; — under a tyranny so arbitrary, wanton and bar- 
barous — it is utterly astonishing, that our compassion 
and sympathy should be so timid and calculating — so 
slow and cautious. 

Under the contemplation of individual suffering, com- 
paratively trifling, both in nature and duration, our com- 
passion is prompt and quick in its movements, — our ex- 
ertions spontaneous and instinctive ; we go the shortest 
way to work, in effecting the relief of the sufferer. But, 
in emancipating eight hundred thousand of our fellov/ 



16 

creatures and fellow subjects from a worse than Egyptian 
bondage, we advance towards the object by a route the 
most indirect and circuitous ; we petition Parliament 
year after year, for gradual emancipation : to what pur- 
pose ? Are we gaining or losing ground by these de- 
lays ? Are we approaching nearer or receding farther 
from the attainment of our objects ? The latter, it is too 
evident, is, and must be the case. The evil principle is 
more subtle and active in its various operations, than the 
good principle. The advocates of slavery, are more 
alert and successful in insinuating into the public mind, 
doubts and fears, coldness and apathy on the subject of 
emancipation, than the abolitionists are in counteracting 
such hostile influence ; and the desertions from the anti- 
slavery standard in point of zeal and activity, if not in 
numbers, since the agitation of the question in Parlia- 
ment last year, are doubtless very considerable. 

Should the numerous petitions to Parliament be ulti- 
mately successful ; should the prayer for gradual eman- 
cipation be granted ; still how vague and indefinite 
would be the benefit resulting from such success. Should 
gome specific time be appointed by government, for the 
final extinction of colonial slavery, that period, we have 
been informed from high authority, will not be an early 
one. And who can calculate tiie tears and groans, the 
anguish and despair ; the ^tortures and outrages which 
may be added, during the term of that protracted inter- 
val, to the enormous mass of injuries already sustained 
by the victims of West Indian bondage 1 Who can cal- 
culate the aggravated accumulation of guilt which may 
be incurred by its active agents, its interested abettors 
and supporters 1 Why, then in the name of humanity, 
of common sense, and common honesty, do we petition 
Parliament, year after year, for a gradual abolition of 
this horrid system ? this complication of crime and mis- 
ery t Why petition Parliament at all^ to do that for us, 



17 

which, were they ever so well disposed, we can do 
more speedily and more effectual for ourselves ? 

It is no marvel that slave holders should cry out against 
immediate emancipation, as they have done against all 
propositions for softening the rigors of colonial slavery. 
" Insurrection of all the blacks — massacre of all the 
whites,''^ are the bugbears which have been constantly 
conjured up to deter the British Parliament from all in- 
terference between the master and his slave. The panic 
was the same, the outcry just as violent, when an attempt 
was made about forty years ago, to abate the horrors of 
the middle passage, by admitting a little more air into 
the suffocating and pestilent holds of the slave ships ; 
and a noble duke besought Parliament not to meddle with 
the alarming question.^ Confident predictions, from this 
quarter, of rebellion and bloodshed have almost uniform- 
ly followed every proposition to restrain the power of 
the oppressor and to mitigate the sufferings of the op- 
pressed. 

It is therefore no wonder that the West Indian pro- 
prietors and slave holders should exclaim against imme- 
diate emancipation ; that they should tell us, the slaves 
are so depraved as well as degraded, as to be utterly in- 
capacitated for the right use of freedom ; that emanci- 
pation, instead of leading them into habits of sober, con- 
tented industry, would be inevitably followed by idleness, 
pillage, and all sorts of enormities ; in short, that they 
would rise in a mass, and massacre all the white inhabitants 
of the islands. 

That slave holders should say, and really believe all 
this, is perfectly natural ; it is no wonder at all that they 
should be full of the most groundless suspicions and ter- 
rors ; for tyrants are the greatest of all cowards. " The 
wicked flee when no man pursueth ;" he is terrified at 



* See the Debate on this subject in 1823. 
2* 



18 

shadows, and shudders at the spectres of his own guilty 
imagination. 

But that the abolitionists should have caught the infec- 
tion ; — should be panic struck ; that the friends of hu- 
manity, — the wise and the good — should be diverted 
from their purpose by such visionary apprehensions ; that 
they should " fear where no fear is;" should swallow the 
bait, so manifestly laid to draw them aside from their 
great object ; that they should be so credulous, so easily 
imposed upon, is marvellous. 

The simple inquiry, what is meant by emancipation? 
might have dissipated at once all these terrible spectres 
of rapine and murder. Does emancipation from slavery 
imply emancipation from law 7 Does emancipation from 
lawless tyranny, — from compulsory, unremunerated la- 
bour, under the lash of the cart whip, imply emancipa- 
tion from all responsibility and moral restraint 1 Were 
slavery in the British colonies extinguished, the same 
laws which restrain and punish crime in the loliite popu- 
lation, would still restrain and punish crime in the black 
population. The danger arising from inequality of 
numbers would be more than counteracted by the wealth, 
influence, and the armed force, possessed by the former. 
But independent of such considerations, the oppressed 
and miserable, corrupt as is human nature, do not nat- 
urally become savage and revengeful when their oppres- 
sions and miseries are removed. As long as a human 
being is bought and sold, — regarded as goods and chat- 
tels, — compelled to labour without wages, — branded, 
chained, and flogged at the caprice of his owner ; he will, 
of necessity, as long as the feeling of pain, the sense of 
degradation and injury remain, he will, unless he have 
the spirit of a Christian martyr, be vindictive and re- 
vengeful. " Oppression (it is said) will make (even) a 
wise man mad." But will the liberated captive, whe.n 
the iron yoke of slavery is broken ; when his heavy bur- 
dens are unbound ; his bleeding wounds healed ; his 



19 

broken heart bound up ; will he then scatter vengeance 
and destruction arownd him ? 

Should the wretched African find the moment for 
breaking Jiis oion Chains, — and asserting his own freedom, 
— ^he may well be expected to take terrible vengeance, — 
to push the law of retaliation to its utmost extreme. But 
when presented with his freedom, — when the sacred 
rights of humanity are restored to him, would that be 
the moment for rage, for revenge and murder 1 To 
polished and Christiaiiized l^uropemis, such abuses of lib- 
erty may appear natural and inevitable, since their own 
history abounds with them. But the history of negro 
emancipation abundantly proves that no such conse- 
quences are to be apprehended from the poor unculti- 
vated and despised African. 

*' But, to demand immediate emancipation, however 
safe, however just and desirable in itself, would (we are 
told) be most irnpolitic, — for it would never be granted ; 
by striving to obtain too much, you would lose all. You 
must go cautiously and gradually to work. A very pow- 
erful interest and a very powerful influence are against 
you. You must try to conciliate instead of provoke the 
West Indian planters ; to convince them that tlieir own 
interest is concerned in the better treatment and gradual 
emancipation of their slaves, or your object will never be 
accomplished." 

But you will strive and labor in vain ; you will reason, 
however eloquently, however forcibly, in the ears of the 
*' deaf adder." The moral and rational perceptions of 
the slave holder, are still more perverted than those of the 
slave ; oppression is more debasing and injurious to the 
intellect of the oppressor, than that of the oppressed. 
The gains of unrighteousness, — familiarity with injustice 
and cruelty, have rendered the slave holder more ob- 
stinately, more incurably blind and inaccessible to rea- 
son, than the slave. And what justice or restitution 



20 

would there be in the world, were unlawful possessions 
never to be reclaimed till there was a disposition in the 
possessor voluntarily to relinquish them, — till he was con- 
vinced that it was his interest to part with them ? 

The interests and the prejudices of the West Indian 
planters, have occupied much too prominent a place in 
the discussion of this great question. The abolitionists 
have shown a great deal too much politeness and accom- 
modation towards these gentlemen. With reference to 
them, the question is said, to be a very delicate one. 
(Was ever the word delicacy so preposterously misap- 
plied 1) It is said, to be beset with difficulties and dan- 
gers. Yes, the parties interested, — criminally iwXevesied, 
protest that the difficulties are insurmountable, — the 
dangers tremendous. But those difficulties and dangers 
have been proved to be visionary and futile, the offspring 
of idle, or of hypocritical fears. A little temporary pe- 
cuniary loss, would be the mighty amount of all the ca- 
lamities which emancipation would entail upon its viru- 
lent and infuriated opposers.* And is that a considera- 
tion to stand in competition with the liberation of eight 
hundred thousand of our fellow creatures from the heavy 
yoke of slavery 1 Must hundreds of thousands of human 
beings continue to be disinherited of those inherent 
rights of humanity, without which, life becomes a curse 
instead of a blessing; must they continue to be roused 
and stimulated to uncompensated labour, night as well 
as day, during a great part of the year, by the impulse of 
the cart whip, that a ie\Y nohle lords and honorable gen- 
tlemen may experience no privation of expensive luxury, 
— no contraction of profuse expenditure, — no curtail- 
ment of state and equipage 1 Must the scale in which 
is placed the just claims, the sacred rights of eight hun* 

* The account of the London meeting of the West Indian planters, 
which took place in February last, perfectly jastifles the application of 
these epithets. 



21 

dred thousand British subjects, be made to kick the beam 
when weighed in the balance against pretensions so 
comparatively light and frivolous 1 

Among the West Indian proprietors, there are doubt- 
less, individuals of high character and respectability, 
whose education and circumstances may nevertheless, 
disqualify them from taking a strictly impartial view of 
colonial slavery. Such, of course, must be exempt from 
the just odium, — the reprobation, which belongs to the 
general body, as far as they have rendered their own 
character notorious by their own declarations, — by the 
speeches they have published, and the decrees they have 
issued ; by the virulent abuse, the rage and calumny 
which they have heaped upon the abolitionists ; by the 
alternations of fawning servility and insolent threatening, 
with which they at one time " prostrate themselves at 
the foot of the throne ; " at another, protest in the tone of 
defiance, not to say rebellion, against British interference 
with colonial legislation. Towards these gentlemen, 
there has been extended a great deal too much delicacy 
and tenderness. They are culprits, in the strictest sense 
of the word, — and as such, they ought to be regarded, 
notwithstanding their rank and consequence, by every 
honest impartial moralist. "They have received, too long, 
the gains of oppression ; too long have they fattened on 
the spoils of humanity. 

It matters not at all, how, or v/hen, the planter ac- 
quired his pretended right to the slave ; whether by 
violence or robbery, — by purchase or by inheritance. 
His claim always was, and always will be, ill-founded, 
because it is opposed to nature, to reason, and to religion^ 

It is also illegal, as far as legality has any foundation 
of justice, divine or human, to rest upon. His plea for 
protection against the designs of the abolitionists, on the 
ground that his poverty has been embarked in this nefa- 
rious speculation, on the faith of Parliament ; — in the 



22 

confidence that no change would be effected in the laws 
which sanction the enormous injustice and wickedness of 
slavery, is cliildish and futile. Are not commercial spec- 
ulations of every kind, subject to perpetual vicissitudes 
and revolution 1 Are not human laws perpetually un- 
derffoino- new modifications and chanojes in accommoda- 
tion to the ever-varying circumstances of the times, — to 
increasing light and civilization 1 It is absurd to im- 
agine that the progress of humanity, of moral and politi- 
cal improvement, is to be arrested, because some individ- 
ual perquisites, derived from institutions of brutal ignor- 
ance and barbarism, would be curtailed. A great deal 
more reasonably might the industrious artizan, whose 
daily subsistence depends on his daily labour — whose 
only property is his labour — and who, in many cases, has 
no means, like the West Indian capitalist, of transferring 
it from one channel to another ; with a great deal more 
reason might he exclaim and cry out for protection 
against all mechanical improvements which diminish 
labor, which deprive thousands of the labouring classes 
of their wonted resources, and drive them to beggary. 

But if the West Indian gentlemen fail to obtain ^ro^cc- 
tion against the designs of the abolitionists, then, they de- 
mand compensation, in the event of the emancipation of 
their slaves, to the immense amount of sixty-four millions. 
And is compensation demanded in no other quarter ? — 
or, if not demanded, is it no where else due 1 If com- 
pensation be demanded as an act of justice to the slave 
holder, in the event of the liberation of his slaves ; let 
justice take her free, impartial course ; let compensation be 
made in the first place where is is most due, let compensa- 
tion be first made to the slave, for his long years of uncom- 
pensated labour, degradation and suffering. It is in this 
quarter, that justice cries aloud for compensation^ — and if 
our attention is turned, but for a moment, to these two - 
substantial and well authenticated claims, — the demands 



23 

of the slave holder (even had they been couched in terms 
less arrogant and insulting) will become not a little ques- 
tionable. 

Experience has already sufficiently evinced the fallacy 
of the notion, of the superior policy of aiming at gradual 
instead of immediate emancipation, on the ground 
of its meeting with less opposition ; for the planters 
have shown themselves just as much enraged at the idea 
of gradual, as of immediate emancipation. They ap- 
pear indeed, either incapable of perceiving, or deter- 
mined to confound all distinction between them; for, in 
the bitterness of their invectives, they accuse the gradual 
abolitionists of endeavoring to bring upon their heads all 
the calamities and destruction which they formerly dep- 
recated as the inevitable consequence of ?/??7?2fJz«^e eman- 
cipation. 

On this great question, the spirit of accommodation 
and conciliation has been a spirit of delusion. The abo- 
litionists have lost, ratlier than gained ground by it; their 
cause has been weakened, instead of strengthened. The 
great interests of truth and justice are betrayed, rather 
tlian supported, by all softening qualifying concessions. 
Every iota w^hich is yielded of their rightful claims, im- 
pairs the conviction of their rectitude, and consequently 
weakens their success. Truth and justice, make their 
best way in the world, when they appear in bold and 
simple majesty ; their demands are most willingly con- 
ceded when they are most fearlessly claimed. 

Were the imm&diate freedom of the slave demanded, 
because in the first instance, is was unlawfully and vio- 
lently wrested from him ! — because, ever since, it has 
been most unjustly and cruelly withheld from him ; be- 
cause it is his inalienable right, which he holds by a di- 
vine charter, which no human claims can disannul : were 
the immediate abolition of slavery in the JBritish domino 
ions demanded because slavery is in direct opposition to 



24 

the spirit of the British constitution, to the spirit and let- 
ter of the Christian religion, — to every principle of hu- 
manity and justice ; hecanse, as long as it is suffered to 
exist, it must remain the fruitful source of the most atro- 
cious crimes, the most cruel suflerings ; because, as long 
as it is suffered to exist, its abettors and supporters, pas- 
sive as well as active, {now that thdr eyes are wide open 
to its enormities,) must lie under the divine malediction, 
and experience, sooner or later, the certain and awful 
visitations of retributive justice, — the fearful accomplish- 
ment of that solemn declaration — "With what measure 
ye mete, it shall be measured to you again : " — Demands 
go evidently just, — such plain appeals to reason and con- 
science, — to lav/ and equity ; — such serious reference to 
Divine authority, — to future retribution, vrould be more 
successi^ul — would be better calculated to keep alive the 
public sympathy — would lead to more unwearied exer- 
tions — to greater sacrifices, than the slov/, cautious, ac- 
commodating measures now proposed by the abolitioQ- 
ists ; than any timorous suggestions of expediency — any 
attempts to conciliate the favour, or to disarm the op- 
position of West Indian slave holders. 

When an obvious and imperative duty is encumbered 
with considerations which do not properly belong to it; 
its obligations, instead of being enforced, are enfeebled ; 
its motives, instead of being concentrated, are divided 
and scattered ; and the duty, if not entirely neglected, 
will be but languidly and partially performed. We make 
slow progress in virtue, lose much time in labour, when, 
instead of going boldly forward in its straight and obvious 
path, we are continually inquiring how far we may pro- 
ceed in it without difficulty, and without opposition. 

Had the abolitionists preserved a single eye to their 
great object ; had they kept it distinct and separate from 
all extraneous considerations ; had they pursued it by a 
course more direct, through means more simple ; had 



25 

they confided more in the goodness of their cause, and 
dreaded less the opposition of its adversaries ; had they 
depended more upon Divine, and less upon human sup- 
port, their triumphs, instead of their defeats, would long 
since have been recorded. Surely their eyes must at 
length be opened ; they must perceive that they have not 
gone the right way to work, — that the apprehension of 
losing all hy asMng too much, has driven them into th@ 
danger of losing all by having asked too little; that the 
spirit of compromise and accommodation has placed 
them nearly in the situation of the unfortunate man in 
the fable, who, by trying to please every body, pleased 
nobody, and lost the object of his solicitude into the bar- 
gain. 

It had been well for the poor oppressed African, had 
the assertors of his rights entered the lists against his op- 
pressors with more of the spirit of Christian combatants, 
and less of worldly politicians, had they remembered 
through the whole of the struggle that it was a conflict of 
sacred duty against sordid interests,— of right against 
might ; that it was, in fact, an holy war — an attack upon 
the strong-holds, the deep intrenchments of the very pow- 
ers of darkness, in which courage would be more avail- 
ing than caution ; in which success was to be expected 
less from prudential or political expedients than from 
that all-controling power which alone gives efficacy to 
human exertions — which often defeats the best concerted 
schemes of human sagacity and accomplishes his great 
purposes through the instrumentality of the simplest 
agency. Had the labours of the abolitionists been begun 
and continued on Divine, instead of human reliance, im- 
mediate emancipation would have appeared just as at- 
tainable as gradual emancipation. But, by substituting 
the latter object for the former, under the idea that its 
accomplishment was more probable, less exposed to ob- 
jection ; and by endeavoring to carry it through consid- 
3 



26 

erations of interest rather than obligations of duty, they 
have betrayed an unworthy diffidence in the cause in 
which they have embarked ; they have converted the 
great business of emancipation into an object of poUtical 
calculation ; they have withdrawn it from Divine, and 
placed it under human patronage ; and disappointment 
and defeat have been the inevitable consequence. 

If the deadly root of slavery be ever extirpated out of 
British soil, it will be by such exertions as are prompted 
by duty rather than interest. We cannot sufficiently ad- 
mire the great wisdom and goodness of those providen- 
tial arrangements which have, in the general course of 
events, so inseparably connected our duty with our inter- 
est ; but with regard to the broad and palpable distinc- 
tions between right and wrong, virtue and vice ; the 
more simple and direct the reference to the will of our 
Divine Lawgiver, and that of his vicegerent, conscience, 
the more determined will be our resolution — the more de- 
cisive our conduct. " How shall I do this great wicked- 
ness and sin against God," will be the most influential 
of all considerations. And the solemn inquiry, pressed 
home to the conscience, how an enlighted and Christian 
government — how an enlightened and Christian commu- 
nity can, in any way, encourage or sanction such a com- 
plicated system of iniquity as that of slavery — " the 
greatest practical blunder, as well as the greatest calam- 
ity that has ever disgraced and afflicted human nature," 
— without sharing its guilt, and, if there be a righteous 
Governor of the universe, its punishment also — will be 
followed up by propositions more consistent and energet- 
ic, than such as aim only at its gradual extermination. 

The very able mover of the question in Parliament last 
year, proposed that our colonial slavery should be suf- 
fered " to expire of itself, to die a natural death." But a 
natural death it never will die. It must be crushed at 
once, or not at all. While the abolitionists are endeavor- 



27 

ing gradually to enfeeble and kill it by inches, it will grad- 
ually discover the means of reinforcing its strength, and 
will soon defy all the puny attacks of its assailants. 

In the meantime, let the abolitionists remember, while 
they are reasoning and declaiming and petitioning Parlia- 
ment for gradual emancipation, let them remember that 
the miseries they deplore remain unmitigated — the 
crimes they execrate are still perpetuated ; still the ty- 
rant frowns, and the slave trembles ; the cart whip still 
plies at the will of the inhuman driver, and the hopeless 
victim still writhes under its lash. The ameliorating 
measures reconunended by Parliament to the colonial legis- 
lators are neglected and spurned. The bad passions of 
the slave holder are exasperated and infuriated by inter- 
ference, and vengeance falls with accumulated weight 
on the slave. It had been better for him had no efforts 
been made for his emancipation, than that they should 
ultimately fail, or be feebly exerted — the interval of sus- 
pense will be an interval of restless perturbation, — of 
aggravated tyranny in the oppressor, — of aggravated suf- 
fering to the oppressed. Unsuccessfid opposition to 
crimes of every description invariably increases their poW' 
er and malignity. 

An immediate emancipation then, is the object to be 
aimed at ; it is more wise and rational — more politic and 
safe, as well as more just and humane, than gradual 
emancipation. The interest, moral and political, tem- 
poral and eternal, of all parties concerned will be best 
promoted by immediate emancipation. The sooner the 
planter is obliged to abandon a system which torments him 
with perpetual alarms of insurrection and massacre, which 
keeps him in the most debasing moral bondage — subjects 
him to a tyranny, of all others the most injurious and de- 
structive, that of sordid and vindictive passions ; the 
Booner he is obliged to adopt a more humane and more 
lucrutive policy in the cultivation of his plantations ; the 



28 

sooner the over-labored, crouching sUive is converted 
into a free laborer — his compulsory, unremunerated toil, 
under the impulse of the cart whip, exchanged for cheer- 
ful, well recompensed industry, — his bitter sufferings for 
peaceful enjoyments — his deep execration of his merci- 
less tyrants, for respectful attacliment to his humane and 
equitable masters ; the sooner the government and the 
people of this country purify themselves from the guilt 
of supporting or tolerating a system of such monstrous 
injustice, productive of such complicated enormities — the 
sooner all this mass of impolicy, crime and suffering, is 
got rid of, the better. 

It behoves the advocates of this great cause, then, to 
take the most direct, the most speedy and effectual means 
of accomplishing their object. If any can be devised 
more direct, more speedy and effectual, or less excep- 
tionable in its operation than tliat which has been sug- 
gested, let it be immediately adopted ; but let us no longer 
compromise the requisitions of humanity and justice for 
tliose of an artful and sordid policy ; let there be no be- 
traying of the cause by needless delay; delay is always 
dangerous; on this momentous question, (humanly 
speaking,) it will be fatal, if much longer protracted. 
The public sympathy is already declining, people are be- 
coming tired of the subject, they grow listless and im- 
patient when it is introduced ; they tell you " they wish 
to hear no more of it, their minds are made up ; no ad- 
vantage can be gained by farther discussion ; the subject 
must now be left to Parliament." Alas ! and liow has 
Parliament disposed of it ? How has it realized the very 
modest hopes indulged by the abolitionists in consequence 
of its declarations in favour of gradual abolition, a year 
Qgo ? By its recent decisions, the great work of emanci* 
pation appears to retrograde instead of advance. The 
bullying of the slave holders is said to have proved coin» 
pletely triumphant. The royal proclamation just issued. 



29 

is rightly denominated a hope extinguisher to the wretch- 
ed slave population. Well may the abolitionists express 
their disappointment on finding the present measures of 
Government fall so far short of the expectations which the 
promises of last session had excited. V/ell may the right 
honourable secretary be charged with " having done 
nothing, or worse than nothing ; with being satisfied, at 
most, to see his pledge in favour of a whole archipelago 
reduced to a single island ; while a law is still to prevail 
in every island in the West Indies, except Trinidad^ 
which authorizes a female negro to be stripped in the 
presence of her father, husband or son, and flogged with 
a cart whip ! ! " 

There were some who anticipated these results ; cheer- 
less and melancholy as they are, they are such as might 
reasonably have been expected from the proposition for 
gradual emancipation, and if persisted in it will assured- 
ly end in no emancipation. The time is critical. The 
general interest in this great subject is evidently on the 
wane, and it should be remembered that even the most 
humane and susceptible — those who are most under the 
influence of true Christian principle, are not always 
bound up to such a pitch of disinterested and ardent zeal 
as is requisite to cope with such a host of interested and 
powerful opponents as are the V/est Indian proprietors 
and slave holders. Those who are '' called to glory and 
virtue," — invited to labour in the Divine vineyard, are ad- 
monished to " work vv hile it is day, for the night cometh, 
in which no man can worfi ; " whilst they have light, 
they are admonished to " walk in the light, lest darkness 
come upon them." Mental darkness, and spiritual night, 
steal fast upon those, v»'ho, when an imperious duty is 
presented to them — when suflicient ability is imparted 
for its accomplishment — falter and procrastinate. 

If the great work of emancipation be not now accom- 
plished, humanly speaking, it may be despaired of, as 
3* 



30 

far as our agency is concerned. The rising generation 
may furnish no such zealous, devoted advocates, as a 
Clarkson, a Wilberforce, and a Buxton. If the clear 
light, the full information, they have so generally difj* 
fused : — the deep interest and sympathy they have so 
generally excited, produce no other results than those at 
present contemplated by the abolitionists — this country 
may fall under the curse of being judicially hardened and 
blinded, in consequence of having been softened and en» 
lightened to so little purpose ; and the emancipation of 
eight hundred thousand British slaves! may be effected 
through other means and other agency, which, Avhen 
once roused into action, may realize all those terrifio 
scenes of insurrection and carnage which the imagina* 
tion of the planter has so often contemplated. 



Since the preceding pages were written, the sentencet 
passed upon the insurgents of Demerara and Kingston 
have reached us Some had been hung, others, had re- 
ceived corporeal punishment, to what extent, let those 
who have ears to hear, and hearts to feel, deeply pon- 
der. Some had received, others, were yet to receive — 

ONE THOUSAND LASHES, AND WERE CONDEMNED TO BB 

WORKED IN CHAINS DURING THE RESIDUE OF THEIR LIVES ! !" 

The horrid work, has probably, by this time been com- 
pleted ; human interposition therefore, with respect ta 
these individual victims of West Indian Justice will 
now be of no avail. 

But shall such sentences as these, be suffered to pass^ 
the ordeal of public opinion 1 Shall they be established 
as precedents for future judgments, on future insur- 
gents 1 Forbid it — every feeling of humanity — in every 
bosom. Let every principle of virtue which distinguishes 
the human from the brute creation, — the professors of 
the benignant, compassionate religion of Christ, from the 
savage and blood-thirsty worshippera of Moloch,- — rais© 



31 

one united, determined and solemn protest against the 
repetition of these barbarities, which blaspheme the sa- 
cred name of justice, and seem to imprecate Ahnighty 
Tengeance. 

Will the inhabitants of this benevolent, this Christian 
country, now want a stimulant to rouse their best exer- 
tions, — to nerve their resolutions against all participa- 
tion with these human blood-hounds 1 Will the British 
public now want a *' spirit stirring " incentive to prohibit, 
and to interdict, henceforth and for ever, the merchan- 
dize of slavery 1 Let the produce of slave labour, hence- 
forth and for ever be regarded as " the accursed tJiing,''^ 
end refused admission into our houses ; or let us re- 
nounce our Christian profession, and disgrace it no long- 
er, by selfish, cold-hearted indifference, which, under such 
cdrcumstanees, would be reproachful to savages. 

What was the offence which brought down this fright- 
ful vengeance on tlie heads of these devoted victims 1 
What horrible crimes could have instigated man to sen- 
tence his fellow man, to a punishment so tremendous ? — 
to doom his brother to undergo the protracted torture of 
a THOUSAND LASHES ? — to havc his quivering flesh man- 
gled and torn from his living body 1 — and to labour 
tlirough life under the galling and ignominious v/eight of 
chains ! It was insurrection. But in what cause did 
they become insurgents ? Was it not in that cause, 
which, of all others, can best excuse, if it cminot justify/ 
insurrection 1 Was it not in the cause of self-defence 
from the most degrading, intolerable oppression ? 

But what was the immediate occasion of this insurrec- 
tion ? What goaded these poor wretches on to brave 
the dreadful hazards of rebellion 1 One of them, now- 
hanging in chains at Demerara, was sold and separated 
from his wife and family of ten children, after a marriage 
of eighteen years, and thereby made a rebel. Another 
was a slave of no common intellect, whose w^ife, the ob- 



32 

ject of his warmest affections was torn from his bosom, 
and forced to become the mistress of an overseer. His do- 
mestic happiness thus destroyed forever, he became, 
(how should it have been otherwise ?) disaffected and 
desperate. Such provocations, added to their common 
and every day wrongs, seem beyond human endurance, 
and might instigate "the very stones to mutiny." 

How preposterously partial and inconsistent are we 
in the extension of our sympathy, our approbation and 
our assistance towards the oppressed and miserable ! 
We extol the resistance of the Greeks, — we deem it he- 
roic and meritorious. We deem it an act of virtue, — of 
Christian charity, to supply them with arms and ammU' 
nition, to enable them to persist in insurrection. Possi- 
bly, in the longest list of munificent subscribers to these 
6^ree^ insurgents, the names of some noble lords and hon- 
ourable gentlemen may be found — who sanction and ap- 
prove the visitation of West Indian slave insurgents, 
with the GIBBET, and the infliction of one thousand 

LASHES ! ! 

But let us, whose moral perceptions are unblinded by 
interest or prejudice, — whose charity is unwarped by 
partiality or hypocrisy ; — let its pursue a more rational 
and consistent course. Let us not overlook our own ur- 
gent duties in the pursuit of such as are less imperitive. 
Let us first — mind our own business, — " pluck the beam 
out of our own eye." Let us first extend the helping 
hand to those who have the first claim to our assistance. 
Let us first liberate our own slaves — which we way do, 
without furnishing them with ai^ms or ammunition. Then, 
we shall have clean hands,— ^Rnd the Divine blessing may 
then be expected to crown our exertions for the redemp- 
tion of ether captives. 

Should the weak objection still haunt some inconsider- 
ate reader, of the little good, which can reasonably be 
expected to result from individual abstinence from West 



33 

Indian produce ; let him reflect, that the most wonder- 
ful productions of human skill and industry ; the most 
astonishing effects of human power have been accom- 
plished by combined exertions, which, when individually 
and separately considered, appear feeble and insignifi- 
cant. Let him reflect, that the grandest objects of human 
observation consist of small agglomerated particles ; that 
the globe itself is composed of atoms too minute for dis- 
cernment ; that extended ages consist of accumulated 
moments. Let him reflect, that greater victories have 
been achieved by the combined expression of individual 
opinion, than by fleets and armies ; that greater moral 
revolutions have been accomplished by the combined ex- 
ertion of individual resolution, than were ever effected by 
acts of Parliament. 

The hydra-headed monster of slavery, will never be de- 
stroyed by other means, than the united expression of m- 
dividual opinion, and the united exertions of individual 
resolution. Let no man restrain the expression of the 
one, or the exertion of the other, from the apprehension 
that his single efforts will be of no avail. The greatest 
and the best work must have a beginning, — often, it is a 
very small and obscure one. And though the example in 
question should not become universal, we may surely 
hope that it will become general. 

If it is too much, to expect that the matter will be ta- 
ken up — (otherwise, than to make a jest of it) — by ths 
thoughtless and the selfish : what proportion these bear 
to the considerate and the compassionate, remains to be 
ascertained. By these, we may reasonably expect that 
it will be taken up, with resolution and consistency. By 
Christian societies of every denomination, — pre-eminent- 
ly by that, which has hitherto stood foremost in the great 
cause of abolition. By the great body of the Catholics 
too, who attach so much merit to abstinence and self-de- 
nial, — and by all the different Protestant professors, (who 



34 

are at all sincere in their profession,) of the one religion 
of universal compassion, — which requires us *' to love our 
neighbour as ourselves,''^ — this testimony against slavery 
may be expected to be borne with scrupulous and con- 
scientious fidelity. 

Think, but for a moment, at what a trifling sacrifice 
the redemption of eight hundred thousand of our fellow 
creatures from the lowest condition of degradation and mis- 
ery may he accomplished. Abstinence from one single ar- 
ticle of luxury would annihilate the West Indian slave- 
ry ! ! But abstinence it cannot be called ; — we only need 
substitute East India, for West India sugar, — and the 
British atmosphere would be purified at once, from the 
poisonous infection of slavery. The antidote of this 
deadly bane, for which we have been so many years in 
laborious but unsuccessful search, is most simple and ob- 
vious, — too simple and obvious, it should seem, to have 
been regarded. Like Naaman, of old, who expected to 
be cured of his leprosy, by some grand and astonishing 
evolution, and disdained to wash, as he was directed, in 
the obscure waters of Damascus ; — we look for the abo- 
lition of British slavery, not to the simple and obvious 
means of its accomplishment, which lie within our own 
power, — but through the slow and solemn proceess of 
Parliamentary discussion, — through the '' pomp and cir- 
cumstance" of legislative enactment ; — most absurdly re- 
monstrating and petitioning against that system of enor- 
mous wickedness, which we voluntarily tax ourselves to 
the annual amount of two millions sterling, to sup- 
port ! ! * 

That abstinence from West Indian sugar alone, would 
sign the death warrant of West Indian slavery, is moral- 
ly certain. The gratuity of two millions annually, is 



* Every reader may not be aware, that such is the amount of our duty 
laid on East India, to keep up the unnatural price of West India sugar. 



35 

acknowledged by the planters, to be insufficient to bolster 
up their tottering system, — and they scruple not, to de- 
clare to Parliament, that they must be ruined, if the pro- 
tecting duties, against East Indian competition, be not 
augmented. 

One concluding word, to such as may be convinced of 
the duty but may still be incredulous as to the efficacy 
of this species of abstinence, from the apprehension 
that it will never become sufficiently general to 
accomplish its purpose. Should your example not 
be followed ; should it be utterly unavailing to- 
wards the attainment of its object ; still, it Vi'ill have its 
own abundant reward ; it will be attended with the con- 
sciousness of sincerity and ct)nsistency, — of possessing 
^^ clean liands^'' of having " no fellowship with the work- 
ers of iniquity ; " still, it will be attended with the approba- 
tion of conscience, — and doubtless, with that of the Great 
Searcher of hearts, who regarded with favourable eye, 
the mite cast by the poor widow into the treasury, and 
declared that a cup of cold water only, administered in 
Christian charity, '* shall in no wise lose its reward." 



