Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/reportonannexatiOOmass 



/ 



9^ */%+4£&f£s 4^ 




SENATE.... ....No. 50. 



REPORT 



ANNEXATION OP TEXAS 



UNITED STATES. 



H^ss 



&ommoutoeaitt) of fHassactjuscttSL 



In Senate, Jan. 10, 1838. 

Ordered, That so much of the Governor's Address as 
relates to the Resolutions of Rhode Island concerning the 
Annexation of Texas to the Union be referred to Messrs. 
Alvord and May, with such as the House may join. 

Sent down for concurrence, 

CHA'S CALHOUN, Clerk. 

House of Representatives, Jan. 12, 1838. 
Concurred, and the House join on its part 

Messrs. Lincoln, of Worcester, 
Colby, of Taunton, 
Browne, oj Lynn. 

L. S. CUSHING, Clerk. 



<&owroontoeaU!) of JHagaacfjusetti^ 



In Senate, Feb. , 1838. 

The Joint Committee to whom was referred " 50 much 
of the Governor 's address as relates to the resolutions 
of Rhode Island concerning the annexation of Texas to 
the Union" and to whom were also referred the peti- 
tion of Asa Stoughton and others, legal voters of the 
town of Gill, and sundry other petitions of many 
thousand citizens of this Commonwealth, praying the 
Legislature " to protest without delay against the an- 
nexation of Texas to this Union," have attended to 
the duty assigned them, and beg leave respectfully to 

REPORT: 

The Committee were impressed in the commencement 
of their duties with the grave and deep importance of 
the subject committed to them, and this impression has 
increased at every step of their progress in its investiga- 
tion. They heartily respond to the language of his Ex- 
cellency, when, in giving his estimate of its magnitude, 
he declares the proposition for the annexation of Texas 
to be " a measure surveyed in all its aspects, among the 
most momentous ever submitted to the People of the 



4 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

United States, involving considerations both of domestic 
and foreign policy of the gravest and most alarming char- 
acter," and that " the avowed objects of the incorporation 
of this vast territory into our Union are doubly fraught 
with peril to its prosperity and permanency." 

The Legislature of Rhode Island deny the competency 
of any branch of the Federal Government to effect this 
object, and allege that it can only be accomplished by 
the exercise of the reserved sovereignty of the people. 

In the precise and eloquent language of the preamble 
of the resolutions, to which his Excellency has reference, 
they declare that " this limited Government (of the 
United States,) possesses no power to extend its juris- 
diction over any foreign nation ; and no foreign nation, 
country or people can be admitted into this Union but by 
the sovereign will and free act of all and each of these 
United States ; nor without the formation of a new com- 
pact of Union ; and another frame of government radi- 
cally different, in objects, principles and powers from 
that which was framed for our own self-government, and 
deemed to be adequate to all the exigences of our own 
free Republic." 

The Legislature of Ohio, in more recent resolutions, 
which were unanimously adopted, " solemnly declare, that 
Congress has no power conferred on it by the Constitu- 
tion of the United States to consent to such annexation; 
and that the people of Ohio cannot be bound by any such 
covenant, league, or arrangement, made between Con- 
gress, and any foreign state or nation.'' 

A similar opinion has been expressed by the Legisla- 
ture of Vermont at their last session, while on the other 
hand, the Legislatures of Tennessee, South Carolina, and 
Mississippi, by urging upon the Government the adoption 



1838. SENATE— No. 50. 5 

of this measure, imply that it is invested with sufficient 
powers for its accomplishment. 

This issue presents a very serious constitutional ques- 
tion, involving a consideration of the structure and powers 
of our Federal Government, and having important rela- 
tions even aside from the merits of the present contro- 
versy. 

It is assumed, in the resolutions of Ohio, that the only 
practical question now presented upon this subject is as 
to the powers of Congress. And such seems to be its 
true position. The proposition for the annexation of 
Texas has been formally made by her minister to our 
Executive, and the proposition was waived, for rea- 
sons, (aside from the constitutionality of the measure, 
which was questioned,) still existing, and which are likely 
long to continue. It is true, also, that it has never been 
pretended, that there was any other power in the govern- 
ment besides that of Congress competent to the perfec- 
tion of such a measure. 

The territory of Louisiana like that of Florida, was 
acquired by treaty of purchase, but it was never supposed 
or contended by any, that this gave to its citizens the 
right to participate in any of the political powers of the 
United States, till afterwards, when Congress, in the 
rightful or wrongful exercise of its authority, formally 
admitted it into the Union. 

The present measure which proposes the annexation 
of a, foreign country to our body has indeed no prece- 
dent in any act of our government, but is to be widely 
distinguished from those other acquisitions of territory by 
the Executive and admissions of states by the Congress, 
which are urged to sanction it : yet these important fea- 
tures in our history, have so far a connexion with the 



6 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

questions, which this measure involves, and have been so 
interwoven with its discussion, that the Committee cannot 
pass them entirely without notice. The conduct of our 
government in these instances, supposes two distinct 
powers. 

1. An authority in the Executive to acquire by treaty 
of purchase, the colonial territory of a foreign nation. 

2. An authority in Congress, after such acquisition, to 
admit into the Union, a state created in such territory. 

These powers, if they exist at all, are vested in differ- 
ent departments of the government : are distinct in their 
character : and, it will be seen hereafter, must be inde- 
pendent in their exercise. The exercise of the first is 
indeed necessary to the existence of the last, but the last 
does not follow from, nor is it established by the first. 
It may well be, that the one is a legitimate power of the 
Executive, while yet the other is not a legitimate power 
of Congress or any other department in the government. 
There is no inconsistency in maintaining that Florida, for 
instance, was rightly acquired by treaty, and is now prop- 
erly one of the territories of the United States, (as has 
been indeed decided by the Supreme Court in American 
Ins. Co. vs. Carter, 1 Peters, R. 516,) and, at the same 
time, that there is no authority in the government to erect 
it into a State, but that it must remain, and be governed 
as a territory with no right in its citizens to participate in 
the political poivers of the Union, till an alteration in the 
constitution, or a consent in some form to its change of 
relation by the people and the States. This distinction 
is by no means new, or adopted for the purpose of avoid- 
ing the decision of the Supreme Court. It is as old as 
the origin of the question. It was asserted by Uriah 
Tracy, in the Debates on the Louisiana Treaty in 1803, 



1338. SENATE— No. 50. 7 

in which he admitted that Louisiana might be rightfully 
acquired as a possession, but denied that it could be ad- 
mitted into the Union as a State, and his argument, of 
which, but scanty records are left, was then pronounced 
by John Quincy Adams, a friend of the treaty, to be 
" unanswerable." The position thus early assumed, the 
Committee believe to be the true doctrine of the consti- 
tution. 

When Louisiana was afterwards in 1812, admitted as 
a State, into the Union, the voice of Massachusetts was 
against the exercise of such a power by Congress. Nor 
did her opposition stop with the admission. In 1813, by 
her Legislature, she protested against the measure, and 
declared " that the admission into the Union of States, 
created in countries not comprehended within the original 
limits of the United States, is not authorized by the let- 
ter or the spirit of the federal constitution." 

Although the Committee are aware, that the annexa- 
tion of Texas in the present position of the question, 
might be resisted on constitutional grounds more univer- 
sally admitted, if not more manifest, than those embodied 
in this resolution, still by a negociation with Mexico in- 
stead of Texas, for the territory of the latter, or in the 
possible exercise of war powers, that position may be 
changed, so as to present the precise issue formed by the 
resolution. And the Committee think it due to the pre- 
vious opinions of the Legislature of this Commonwealth, 
as well as to those of other states which have more re- 
cently been expressed, to review this ground, before they 
develope the broad distinction between the question now 
presented as to the annexation to this country of the for- 
eign nation of Texas, and those questions which arose in 
the acquisition of the colonial territory of France, by the 



8 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

treaty of April 30, 1800, at Paris, and the subsequent 
admissions of Louisiana, Missouri, and Arkansas, each 
embracing portions of that territory, into the Union. 

Is then Congress invested with power to admit into 
this confederacy, States, created in territories beyond the 
limits of the United States, as they were settled by the 
treaty of peace of 1783, and existed at the time of the 
adoption of the constitution ? 

Such a power obviously cannot be derived by construc- 
tion as incidental to the general nature of our govern- 
ment. If indeed, which is the favorite doctrine of some 
of the most prominent of our southern statesmen, this 
Union is but a compact or league of the States, such a 
power would be at war with its very structure ; for it is 
as true of the Association of States, as that of individuals, 
and results indeed from the very nature of the compact, 
that no new member can be admitted into the partnership, 
without the agreement of each of the others. No major- 
ity however large, have power to effect this, for all and 
each have a right to say with whom they will or will not 
be connected, and may object as well to the introduction 
of new parties as to the affixing of new and different 
terms and conditions to their contract. And so far is this 
principle carried in the civil law, which has entered largely 
into the interpretation of the law of nations, that not even 
the express agreement of the parties in the formation of 
their association, nor any general consent is competent to 
control it, but the power to judge in each individual case 
is inalienable. If then this government be but a compact of 
separate and independent sovereignties, as is contended by 
those very statesmen, who are the warmest friends of this 
annexation, then, from this doctrine of the civil law, it 
would follow, not only that this right of annexation did 



1838. SENATE— No. 50. 9 

not belong to the government, as an incident to its sove- 
reignty, but that even an express provision in the consti- 
tution, would not avail for this purpose, because it would 
be inconsistent with the very nature of the confederacy. 
If this argument would prove too much, and lead to ab- 
surdity, the Committee are not responsible for its conse- 
quences. They leave the explanation to those, who give 
their assent to the proposition contained in the first of 
the well-known resolutions of Mr. Calhoun, which was 
adopted in the Senate of the United States, by a large 
majority, viz. " That in the adoption of the Federal Con- 
stitution, the States adopting the same, acted severally, 
as free, independent, and sovereign States ; and that each, 
for itself, by its own voluntary assent, entered the Union 
with the view to its increased security against all dangers, 
domestic as well as foreign, and the more perfect and se- 
cure enjoyment of its advantages, natural, political, and 
social." 

But upon those, who contend for the more enlarged and 
liberal construction of our constitution, this view of the 
question is by no means lost. For they admit that this 
government is, in some sense, " a confederacy," a "Union 
of the States," though they believe it to be also some- 
thing more, to wit, a government of the people. Thus 
it was the opinion of Mr. Madison, that it was " neither 
entirely a national or a confederated government, but a 
mixture of both." In the Federalist, it is said, the 
constitution is in strictness neither a national nor a federal 
constitution, but a composition of both." (The Federal- 
ist, No. 39. See also 1 Story's Co mm. 269, et seq.) Now 
although this power to admit States, not contemplated at 
the time of the formation of the constitution, might be- 
long to the government in virtue of its national, as it 
2 



10 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

could not in virtue of its merely federal character, yet as 
its exercise must operate upon and effect federal relations, 
it is so far inconsistent with the structure of the constitu- 
tion, and very strong evidence should be found in the ex- 
plicit provisions of the instrument itself, to authorize a 
belief in its existence. Mere general words, which might 
have other objects, ought not to be sufficient :— for they 
should be limited to those purposes, which would be con- 
sistent with the spirit of its whole structure. And yet 
the only clause in the constitution, which is supposed to 
give Congress this authority, is one, general in its terms ; 
which had other and sufficient objects well known and 
contemplated at the time ; and which ought to be limited 
to those objects, not only by the considerations before 
stated, but, as the Committee believe, by every rule of 
sound construction. 

The clause referred to is the third Section of the fourth 
Article of the Constitution, and is in these words, "New 
States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union ; 
but no new State shall be formed and erected within the 
jurisdiction of any other State ; nor any State be formed 
by the junction of two or more States or parts of States, 
without the consent of the Legislature of the States con- 
cerned, as well as of the Congress," and provision is made 
in the same section for the government of territories. 

Before examining these provisions particularly, and 
comparing them with other parts of the constitution, it 
is necessary to take a short view of the antecedent situa- 
tion of the country, and the history of the times, in refer- 
ence to which all such instruments are to be construed. 
The limits of the " United States," were definitely fixed 
by the treaty of peace of 1783. These limits consisted 
not only of organized States, but also of territories, which 



1838. SENATE— No. 50. 11 

had no state governments, but were the dependencies and 
property of the United States. By the ordinances of the 
federal Congress passed previously to the adoption of the 
constitution, it was determined that these territories 
should be formed into new states upon certain conditions 
therein specified. At the time of that adoption they 
were still merely territories, though within the well re- 
cognized limits of the United States. Some provision 
would of course be made in the constitution for their 
admission into the Union, in fulfilment of the pledge of 
Congress. The creation of new states within the limits 
of the United States, then, undoubtedly was an object, 
and your Committee believe it was the only object, of 
the clause in question. Such would seem, indeed, to be 
the fair meaning of the words, taken by themselves in 
reference to the circumstances. But this construction is 
greatly fortified by an examination of other parts of the 
constitution, its general scope and design, and by apply- 
ing those universally admitted rules of interpretation, 
which tend to develope the intention of its framers. 

In order to determine whether the words should have 
the more enlarged or the more limited sense, we should, 
in the first place, consider the nature and objects of the 
constitution, " as apparent from the structure of the in- 
strument, viewed as a whole. 1 '' (1 Story's Comm. 387.) 
" We ought" (says Vattel in treating of the rules of 
construction,) " to consider the whole together in order 
perfectly to conceive the sense of it, and to give to each 
expression not so much the signification it may receive 
in itself, as that it ought to have from the thread and 
spirit of the" instrument. (Vattel B. 2 ch. 17, § 285.) 

The preamble of the Constitution is the best exponent 
of " its nature and objects," of " its spirit and scope*" 



12 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

It is in these words : 

"We, the people of the United States, in order to form 
a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic 
tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the 
general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to 
ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish 
this Constitution for the United States of America ." 

This preamble explains, briefly and clearly, the objects 
and nature of the Constitution. It states, by whom, it 
was made ; for whom, it was made ; and over whom, it 
was intended to diffuse its blessings. There is not a 
suggestion, which looks to or supposes any farther parti- 
cipation in its powers or obligations than by those in- 
cluded within " the United States,'''' (whose territory was 
defined by the treaty of peace,) and any enlargement of 
these to further limits would be to extend them without 
its scope, and beyond its objects. It would be, indeed, 
the establishment without authority of "another frame of 
government radically different" from our own. When, 
therefore, general words are used in other parts of the 
instrument, they are to be construed in reference to, and 
are to be limited by, this exposition of its general princi- 
ples and purposes. For " we should take the words in 
the sense that agree with the subject and matter. If the 
subject or the matter treated of will not allow that the 
terms should be taken in their full extent, we should 
limit the sense accordingly." (Vattel, B. 2, ch. 17, 
§ 295.) When, then, reference is had to " new states" 
which are to be created, the words should be understood 
on this sound rule of construction, to include only the new 
states contemplated within the original limits of the 
" United States." 

Again, there is not in any other part of the Constitution, 



1838. SENATE— No. 50. 13 

a single phrase or expression, lohich intimates or supposes 
the future probable or possible admission into the Union 
of the territory of any foreign country. It is, indeed, 
wonderful, if such a power was contemplated, that no 
conditions or limitations should be found in relation to 
its exercise. The very section before quoted, and which 
is supposed to include this power, contains provisions 
which have something like the effect of an enumeration 
of its objects. Reservations in relation to the then ter- 
ritories of the "United States," and restrictions upon 
the exercise of this power as to the states, are carefully 
made, but there is no provision, reservation, or restriction 
as to the supposed authority to admit states created from 
foreign territories. Why this care and circumspection to 
guard the lesser power, and this total want of restraint 
as to the greater, except it be that this enlarged construc- 
tion of the clause was not contemplated by those who 
made and sanctioned it ? And their intention is the only 
question at issue. 

The contemporaneous exposition of the constitution, by 
those great men, who were active at the time of its for- 
mation and adoption, are frequently to be relied on, as 
furnishing the true key to its interpretation. The Su- 
preme Court have often had recourse to these explana- 
tions, and acknowledged and insisted upon the value and 
importance of their use. The question of the adoption 
of the constitution called into exercise, and arrayed on 
opposite sides, all the great minds of the country. There 
was hardly an express provision, or an implied power, which 
could be derived from it, that was not examined and dis- 
cussed in all its relations and consequences. The oppo- 
nents of the measure taxed their intellects (and they 
were not mean ones,) to the utmost to detect and lay 



14 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

bare every hidden defect, every latent power, which 
might lead to abuse, and expose them to the odium of the 
conventions and the people. How happens it, that such 
a power as this was passed by them entirely without no- 
tice ? They insisted strenuously that the territory of the 
United States was too large, and unwieldy for such a 
government ; — why did they not object that it had within 
itself this power of unlimited extension ? It could only 
be, because such a construction of the constitution, was 
not dreamed of. 

Who can suppose that if this overwhelming authority, 
was believed to exist at the time, it should not have been 
treated of, or even glanced at, in any of the numerous es- 
says and debates of the period, which have come down to 
us ? Yet such, it is believed, is the fact. The section 
was often discussed, and with great minuteness, but it 
seems to have been taken for granted throughout, that 
the authority, which it conferred, was only to be exercis- 
ed on objects within the territory of the United States ; 
and it was left to future ingenuity to derive from it a 
power, which, at the time, seems never to have been sus- 
pected. This silence w T ould, of itself, speak volumes on 
this subject, but there is also some positive testimony in 
the records of the times, that new states were only con- 
templated within the original limits of the United States. 
Thus Gen. Heath said, in the Massachusetts Convention, 
speaking on the article forbidding any action till 1808, as 
to the migration and importation of slaves, — It " is con- 
fined to the states now existing only. New states can- 
not claim it; congress, by the ordinance for erecting new 
states some time since, declared that the new states shall 
be republican, and that there shall be no slavery in them." 

But, again, such a construction is inconsistent with the 



1838. SENATE— No. 50. 15 

compromise, under which the Constitution was adopted, 
and which entered largely into its provisions. Many con- 
flicting interests were reconciled, and the relative privi- 
leges, and powers of all were adjusted, in reference to the 
existing state of things, and in part undoubtedly in refer- 
ence to the extent of territory, and probable population, 
represented by different interests. The reason for this 
would be destroyed, if there were a liability to change 
the relative weight, and influence of different sections, 
and thus create a new division of power, by the addition 
of states, not contemplated at the time, upon mere motives 
of general policy. A provision was inserted for instance, 
which would give the slave states larger power and influ- 
ence than the northern, in proportion to the free inhabi- 
tants of each, not from any inherent propriety in the rule 
itself, but undoubtedly among other reasons, because the 
slave states were in the minority, and looking to the ter- 
ritory of the United States only, always must be in a mi- 
nority ; and they demanded something, which would an- 
swer as a protection for their peculiar interests. Would 
our fathers have consented to this, if it had been contem- 
plated, that states without the then United States, might 
be admitted to participate in our government, and thus en- 
tirely destroy the balance which it was intended to cre- 
ate, so that (as would be the case should Texas be incor- 
porated into the Union,) the unequal privilege, which 
was given to protect the weak, should at last, be used 
to make the power of the strong more irresistible ? The 
committee do not here speak of the injustice of this effect, 
though it would be flagrant, but they allude to it to show 
the improbability that such a principle as they are contend- 
ing against, which would disturb all the harmony and re- 
lation of its parts, should have been intentionally inserted 



16 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

into the constitution, or contemplated by its founders, and 
especially that it should have been assented to by the 
people of the North. 

There is another argument against the existence of this 
power, which the committee will dispose of in this con- 
nexion. It is derived from its unreasonable and danger- 
ous character. It would indeed be in any view a power 
of monstrous extent, peculiarly unsuited to a confederated 
republic, and which a wise people would hardly have del- 
egated. We have seen that by its influence, all the 
guards, and cheeks, and balances of the constitution af- 
fecting the relative weight and influence of the different 
portions of the Union, may be destroyed ; it could make 
new distributions of power, according to the circumstan- 
ces of the time, and mar all the harmony of the system. 
It could break down all right in the minority to choose 
their own political associations. It would have too, in its 
connexion with the war power, no limits,, but we should 
be liable, by its exercise, to have our destinies fixed with 
those of any other people on this, or the other continent, 
with whom the interests of, it may be, an accidental ma- 
jority, or the vacillating policy of the government might 
choose to unite us. 

Even then, if other considerations still left the ques- 
tion in doubt, and it be a sound rule of construction, that 
" where the intention of words is doubtful, we should 
give them that effect which is most reasonable" in refer- 
ence to the consequences (1 Story, 384, Vattel, book 2, 
ch. 17, ^ .) this argument would come in here with a con- 
trolling influence. 

But it will be said, undoubtedly, that this question has 
been settled, and so settled, that it ought not now to be 
considered an open one. This suggestion will, of course, 



1838. SENATE— No. 50. 17 

hardly be made by that class of statesmen, who reject all 
precedent; who will not listen to judicial interpretations 
or any practical constructions of other branches of the 
government, or even contemporaneous explanation, as 
of the slightest consequence ; and who maintain the un- 
constitutionality of the tariff, o( internal improvements, 
and of the United States Bank, just as stoutly and un- 
ceasingly as if their doctrines had not been a thousand 
times overruled in the legislative action and judicial deci- 
sions of the country. But your committee are not of this 
faith. They admit the value of precedent; and when 
the acts relied on, in this view, are often repeated, were 
well and calmly considered, and adopted in reference to 
the question of constitutional power, and intended, in 
good faith, to affirm it, they furnish evidence, often high 
evidence, of its existence. But when the practice relied 
on wants these elements — when especially the great one, 
which is founded on a confidence in the opinion of those 
men who adopted it, is destroyed, by a knowledge that 
their real opinions were in exact contrast with that which 
is derived from their actions, then indeed is precedent 
worthless, for it wants the living principle, which alone 
can give it authority. 

The acquisition of the territory of Louisiana, was the 
great measure of Jefferson, and has been looked upon as the 
crowning glory of his administration. The question as to 
the power of Congress to admit its inhabitants into the 
Union, arose at the making of the treaty, and the 
discussions, which grew out of its adoption, for it con- 
tained an express stipulation that the people of that 
territory should be admitted to the enjoyment of the 
rights, and privileges, and powers of citizens of the United 
States. The posthumous publication of his writings, has 
3 



18 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb, 

fully disclosed, that Jefferson himself believed, as did ma- 
ny others who acted with him, that his own acts, in 
making this stipulation, and consenting to its execution? 
were not authorized by the constitution, but that they 
implied the exercise of a power forbidden by its spirit, 
and which could only be justified by the extreme and 
splendid importance of the acquisition, and made binding 
by the probable acquiescence, and silent confirmation of 
the people. 

That there may be no mistake upon this point, we 
quote his own language. 

"When I consider, that the limits of the United States 
are precisely fixed by the treaty of 1783 — that the con- 
stitution expressly declares itself to be made 'for the 
United States,' I cannot help believing that the intention 
was not to permit Congress to admit into the Union new 
States, which should be formed without the territory for 
which, and under whose authority alone, they were then 
acting." (4 Jefferson, 2.) 

Again. " The constitution has made no provision for 
our holding foreign territory, still less for incorporating 
foreign nations into our Union." (3 Jefferson, 512.) 

There was no change of his opinions throughout, and 
he consented to the measure only because he thought the 
exigencies of the times, and the objects to be gained were 
sufficient to sanction it, and gain for it the ratification of 
the people — in his ow r n language, " confiding that the good 
sense of the country, will correct the evil of construction, 
when it shall produce ill effects." 

The adoption of the treaty, with this stipulation, and 
the measures taken to carry it into effect in the adminis- 
tration of Jefferson, contain the whole force of the prece- 
dent, for, although the states embraced in the territory 



I8S3. SENATE— No. 50. 19 

were subsequently admitted, jet this was based upon 
these proceedings, being merely in performance of the 
stipulation, which Jefferson had made, both houses of 
Congress confirmed, and the people, acting probably from 
the same motives, acquiesced in. 

The committee cannot think that a precedent thus es- 
tablished, ought to have any binding force upon future 
interpretations of the constitution. They do not mean, 
that the states, thus admitted without the territory of the 
United States, are not now rightfully in the Union. The 
people of the other states undoubtedly had a right to con- 
firm these acts of their government, and probably by their 
silent acquiescence and their active participation with 
these new states in the exercise of the powers of the 
Union, they would be held to have sanctioned their ad- 
mission. 

It seems to have been supposed in very many of the 
discussions upon this subject, and particularly in the able 
report to the Ohio Legislature, which accompanied the 
resolutions before referred to, that the power exercised in 
the case of Louisiana, and that which is proposed to be 
exerted in the admission of Texas, are precisely analo- 
gous, and that if the rightful authority of the first be 
established, the other must follow as a necessary conse- 
quence. Your committee have already intimated that 
they are not of this opinion. If it were clear that the 
acquisition and admission of Louisiana were but the ex- 
ercise of the legitimate powers of the government, this 
would by no means authorize the conclusion, of its au- 
thority to effect the union of our country with that of 
Texas. The two questions are distinct in their charac- 
ter, and depend upon entirely different principles. The 
latter supposes the annexation of a foreign independent 



20 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

nation, and the consequent, meeting and amalgamation of 
two sovereignties, or the merging of one in the other; 
while the former implies only the power of purchasing of 
another nation, not itself, but its dependency and property, 
and the admission of that, after it had become the terri- 
tory of the United States, into the Union. This distinc- 
tion is one not of form, but of substance. In the nego- 
tiations on the subject between Gen. Hunt, the Texan 
Minister, and Mr. Forsyth, the Secretary of State, both 
gentlemen seem to have been fully aware, that the meas- 
ure proposed was one of new impression, and not justified 
by any example in our history ; and the minister seems 
to have had an embarrassing sense that it had no prece- 
dent in the exercise of the peace powers of any govern- 
ment on earth. After making the proposition in ivords, 
to which, in whatever form brought forward, it must be 
reduced in substance, to wit, " to unite the two people un- 
der one and the same government," he proceeds: — " Nu- 
merous examples of the amalgamation of sovereignties, 
may be found in the history of nations, but force, and not 
mutual affection and interest, has been the general in- 
ducement to the formation of such bonds, and it is, per- 
haps, impossible to find in the annals of any age a com- 
plete precedent of the one under consideration.' n 

The answer of Mr. Forsyth expressly recognizes the 
distinction before taken. He says, " The question of the 
annexation of a foreign independent state to the United 
States has never before been presented to this govern- 
ment." After reviewing the history of the proceedings 
as to Louisiana and Florida, he continues, — " The cir- 
cumstance hoioever of their being colonial possessions of 
France and Spain, and therefore dependent on the metro- 
politan government, renders these transactions materially 



1838. SENATE— No. 50. 21 

different from that which would be presented by the ques- 
tion of the annexation of Texas" 

The committee do not believe that any power exists in 
any branch of this government, or in all of them united, 
to consent to such a union, nor indeed does such authori- 
ty pertain, as an incident of sovereignty or otherwise, to 
the goverment, however absolute, of any nation. It can 
only be rightfully effected, by a resort to the summjf jus ^<^y 
populi, the supreme law, which is vested in the people. 

But before considering the authority of the law of na- 
tions upon this subject, or rather in order to its consider- 
ation, let us see in what form would be the practical ex- 
ercise of this supposed power. In what department does 
it lie ? Or, if it requires the combined authority of more 
than one, how is the first step to be taken ? 

If the treaty-making power, as in the case of Louis- 
iana, is first to be exercised for the acquisition of the ter- 
ritory of Texas, or exercised at all in reference to the ef- 
fect, how is it to be made available ? The provision of 
the constitution upon this subject, is in these words. " He, 
(the president,) shall have power, by and with the advice 
and consent of the senate, to make treaties, provided two- 
thirds of the senators present concur." (Act 2, sec. 2, 
clause 2.) The constitution contains, nowhere, a definition 
of this power, and we must look for its nature and limits, 
therefore, to the law of nations, except so far as it may be 
restrained by the other provisions of the constitution itself. 
For " a power given by the constitution cannot be con- 
strued to authorize a destruction of other powers given in 
the same instrument. It must be construed, therefore, 
in subordination to it, and cannot supersede or interfere 
with, any other of its fundamental provisions." (3 Story's 
Com., 355, 6.) Undoubtedly, having its existence under 



22 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

the constitution, it must assume that form, which that in- 
strument has imposed. In the language of George Nich- 
olas, in the Virginia Debates, — and the same opinion was 
expressed by Mr. Madison and Gov. Randolph, — " They 
(the President and Senate) can make no treaty which 
shall be repugnant to the spirit of the constitution, or in- 
consistent with the delegated powers." It is needless to 
multiply authorities or reasons upon this proposition. 

But, again, the treaty-making power has other limits 
imposed upon it by the law of nations. There are certain 
things which the treaty-making power nowhere is able 
to effect, because they belong inalienably to the people, 
and are not. only not presumed to be, but cannot be, 
delegated by them to their governments. They embrace 
rights, which no sovereign can by treaty grant on the one 
hand, or acquire on the other. 

Territory may often undoubtedly be affected by treaty. 
Among its legitimate subjects, unless restrained by the 
fundamental laws of the state, are the settlement of doubt- 
ful boundaries between nations — the sale and acquisition 
of territorial possessions and dependencies, which are 
reckoned the mere property of the Prince, but it is doubt- 
ful whether a part of the principal empire can thus be 
transferred, except it be in extremis, in time of war, and 
the whole territory of a nation, which necessarily includes 
its sovereignty, cannot be made the subject of this species 
of contract. No people ever did or can grant an authori- 
ty to merge their lot with thatrof another ; from the na- 
ture of things it must be retained by themselves. This 
was the opinion of Locke. "Every sovereignty," says 
Vattel, "is unalienable in its own nature." "If it" (a 
nation) " trust, the public authority to a prince, even with 
the right of transmitting it into other hands, this can nev- 



1838. SENATE— No. 50. 23 

er be except by the express and unanimous consent of the 
citizens, with the right of really alienating or subjecting 
the state to another body politic." * * * " li' some petty 
principalities have been considered as such (as alienable) 
it is because they were not true sovereignties." (Vattel 
B. 1. ch. 5. § 69.) And he speaks of the exceptions to 
this rule which occur in history, particularly in cases of 
what Grotius calls " patrimonial kingdoms," as abuses of 
power, not authorized by the law of nations. 

PufTendorf says, "A prince (the sovereignty in a state) 
nath no manner of power to transfer or give away his 
kingdom by his own single authority, and his subjects are 
not at all obliged by such an act, if made." (B. 8, ch. 
5, | 9.) 

(See also 2 Ward's Law of Nations, 256.) 
If, therefore, as is evident, the sale of the whole terri- 
tory of a nation, is a disposition of its sovereignty, and 
this be not a subject of barter by governments, to be 
transferred by them, Texas cannot merge her existence 
in ours "so as to form an "incorporate union," by any 
act of less authority than that of the people themselves. 
Such a transfer cannot be made a subject of grant, nor, 
of course, of purchase. A contract of this kind is not 
only mutual, but supposes competent authority in two 
consenting governments. If that of Texas cannot convey 
ours for the same reasons cannot acquire, that, which is not 
in its nature the subject of the powers granted to either. 
These powers are from their nature cor-relative ; and 
whether the result aimed at, is spoken of as the annexa- 
tion of Texas to the United States, or the annexation of 
the United States to Texas, the substance and effect are 
the same. It is quite immaterial, too, in the practical 
consequences, whether we are directly sold to Texas, or 



24 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

England, or France, or Russia, or, by admitting them 
to participate in the powers of our confederacy, are 
overwhelmed and lost in our comparative feebleness, and 
thus commit to their hands its future moulding and direc- 
tion. It is no matter in what form this measure is pro- 
posed. It is, in fact, the union of two independent gov-- 
ernments : or perhaps it should rather be said, the disso- 
lution of both, and the formation of a new one, which, 
whether founded on the same or another written consti- 
tution, is, as to its identity, different from either. This 
can only be effected by the summajus, the highest rights 
of reserved sovereignty. It must be the act of the people 
themselves, and not of their rulers or servants. Neither 
the strongest exercise of the executive or the legislative 
power, or that of any other department, or of all combin- 
ed, is competent to authorize its establishment. 

If, indeed, it were otherwise, it would be idle to talk 
of " reserved rights" and " limited powers." They would 
be phrases without meaning, and represent things without 
efficacy. 

Other considerations have been connected with these 
constitutional questions, though the connexion is without 
any real affinity.. It is said, that Texas is in fact within 
the territory purchased in 1803 by the United States of 
France — though it is admitted, at the same time, that, 
whatever claim she had by virtue of this purchase, was 
relinquished in her subsequent treaty with Spain. The 
argument is presented in the resolution of Mr. Preston, 
submitted to the United States Senate January 4th, 1838. 
We transcribe the whole, because emanating as it does, 
from that enlightened statesman, it contains, within itself, 
the best evidence of the inherent feebleness of the cause, 
to which he has lent his great influence and popularity. 



1338. SENATE— No. 50. 25 

"Whereas, the just and true boundary of the United 
States, under the treaty of Louisiana, extended on the 
southwest to the Rio Grande del Norte, which river con- 
tinued to he the true boundary line until the territory west 
of the Sabine was surrendered to Spain by the treaty of 
J 819: And whereas, such surrender of a portion of the 
territory of the United States is of evil precedent, and 
questionable constitutionality : And whereas, many 
weighty considerations of policy make it expedient to re- 
establish the said true boundary, and to annex to the 
United States the territory occupied by the state of Tex- 
as, with the consent of the said state : 

" Be it therefore resolved, That, with the consent of 
the said state previously had, and whenever it can be ef- 
fected consistently with the public faith and treaty stipu- 
lations of the United States, it is desirable and expedient 
to re-annex the said territory to the United States." 

It will be seen, that the only argument in the resolu- 
tion in favor of this measure, is derived from the assertion, 
that Texas was once within the territory of the United 
States. The committee doubt as to the fact, and are to- 
tally at loss to see, how, if established, it would have any 
tendency towards the conclusion. It is certainly a strong 
presumption against such a claim, that although it was 
once made by Mr. Monroe, and Mr. Adams, his Secreta- 
ry, they themselves, after investigation, had no confidence 
in its validity; and that France, from whom, if at all, we 
derived our title, had never pretended to it, but always 
admitted the right of Spain. 

Your committee cannot here go into an inquiry as to this 
supposed former title in the United States: though they 
believe, that such an examination, independent of these 
4 



26 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

presumptions, would show it to be entirely without foun- 
dation. But of what consequence is this, if the United 
States formally relinquished her claim, whatever it might 
have been, in the treaty with Spain, by which she ac- 
quired the Floridas? If Texas is now a foreign coun- 
try, — if it is not now within the limits of the United 
States, — of what consequence is it, what may have been 
the fact twenty years ago ? 

This resolution attempts to give the answer. The 
cession to Spain was of " questionable constitutionality.^ 
But how ? Is not the treaty-making power under our 
government, competent to settle a disputed boundary line ? 
Nay, may it not sell a territory (not included in a state)? 
For if it cannot, then it is as clear that it cannot purchase 
one ; — for the powers are placed on the same ground, in 
the law of nations, and there is certainly no more re- 
straint in our fundamental law, on the exercise of the 
first, than the last. The result of Mr. Preston's reasoning 
would therefore be, that we never had any title to this 
territory, by our treaty with France, and thus he must 
end with the denial of the very assumption with which 
he started. 

But, again, supposing his assumption of fact to be true, 
and that it is also true that the treaty with Spain was 
unconstitutional, — what then? How are we to avoid it? 
There is but one way, certainly, if there be any, and that 
is to disclaim the whole contract. If we take back Texas, 
we must give back Florida. We cannot resume our 
grant because it was unauthorized, and at the same time 
keep the consideration. The treaty must be void or valid 
as a whole. Does the resolution propose this course ? — 
No ! The conclusion is that we ought, " with the con- 
sent of Texas," to re-annex it to the United States. 



1888. SENATE— No. 50. 27 

But, if we purchase it, or acquire it again, by contract or 
otherwise, is this any avoidance of our treaty with Spain, 
or any testimony to our belief of its unconstitutionality ? 
Is the evil of the " example " thus purged or destroyed ? 
On the contrary, the very act supposes the validity of the 
treaty, and carries with it no evidence against its policy. 
But it is useless to follow out this proposition, in the 
resolution, into all its consequences. Its parts have no 
principle of cohesion to unite them, but fall in pieces 
at the touch. And yet it is the ground, and the only 
ground, excepting a general assertion "of policy" con- 
tained in a well considered resolution for the annexation 
of Texas, deliberately proposed by one of the most emi- 
nent and able of its friends! 

The committee remark again, that the annexation of 
Texas, would not be consistent with the honor of this 
country in view of its relations ivith Mexico. 

In the present state of things, certainly, it would be a 
breach of public faith. Mr. Preston acknowledges this, 
in the cautious qualification of his resolution. It recom- 
mends that Taxes be annexed only when " it can be 
effected consistently with the public faith and treaty stip- 
ulations of the United States," confessing by implication, 
that by its present admission, this faith and these stipula- 
tions would be violated. Mr. Forsyth also acknowledges 
the conclusive nature "of this objection, though he accom- 
panies it with an intimation, which affords much evidence 
as to the policy, which the executive had marked out for 
itself upon this subject, and which its subsequent conduct 
has confirmed. In his letter to Gen. Hunt, before allud- 
ed to, he says — " So long as Texas shall remain at war, 
while the United States are at peace with her adversary, 
the proposition of the Texian minister plenipotentiary, 



23 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

involves the question of war with that adversary. The 
United States are bound to Mexico by a treaty of amity 
and commerce, which will be scrupulously observed on 
their part, so long as it can be reasonably hoped that 
Mexico will perform her duties and respect our rights un- 
der it. The United States might justly be suspected of* 
a disregard of the friendly purposes of the compact, if the 
overture of Gen. Hunt were to be even reserved for fu- 
ture consideration, as this would imply a disposition on 
our part to espouse the quarrel of Texas with Mexico ; a 
disposition wholly at variance with the spirit of the trea- 
ty, with the uniform policy and obvious welfare of the 
United States." 

But it must be unnecessary to quote authorities or ad- 
missions upon this point. If Texas becomes an integral 
part of the United States, our government, by the very 
act which makes her so, adopts her quarrel, and engages to 
fight her battles with Mexico. This would be in itself a 
violation of our faith, and the forfeiture of our honor. 

But this is not all. What is this war which we should 
thus sanction and adopt ? What are itsobjects, instruments, 
and character, that the United States should place upon 
it her seal of approbation ? The committee will not here 
go into the history of the revolt of Texas. Abler hands 
have torn away the covering, by which its real fea- 
tures were concealed, and exposed it to the public view. 
Your committee believe, that in its origin and progress 
its real purposes had (e\v elements of justice or dignity. 
It was a war, some of the objects of which, at least, 
were speculation, and the poor liberty of holding men 
in bondage ; the wresting from Mexico of her public 
domain, and establishing again upon the soil, which her 
ordinances had made free, the curse of domestic slavery. 



1833. SENATE— No. 50. 29 

Not only was it prosecuted, in a great measure, for the 
benefit of citizens of the United States, but with their as- 
sistance and active co-operation. The provisions and mu- 
nitions for its army were sent from the United States, and its 
ranks were filled by enlistments openly made within her 
borders. These proceedings were without concealment. 
They were open to public inspection, and were made the 
subjects of continual comment, and if they were not ap- 
proved, they, at least, were uncontrolled by our government. 
The sensitiveness to the public honor, which more recent 
violations of neutrality on our northern frontier has awak- 
ened, was then in dishonorable repose. Now, when it is 
remembered in connexion with these facts, that it was the 
intention throughout of the fomentors and supporters of 
this revolt, finally to secure their objects, by an union of 
Texas with this country, in what light will the United 
States stand among the nations, if she consents to this 
consummation of their purposes ? Would she not ratify 
these proceedings of her citizens, and make their acts hers 
by adoption ? Could her conduct be viewed in any other 
light, or exhibit any different degree of wrong, than if she 
had directly made the possessions of a defenceless sister 
republic, the subjects of a wicked and indefensible rob- 
bery, for the worst of purposes? The open violation of 
a treaty would be as nothing in comparison with this 
complicated guilt. 

It seems to be anticipated by Mr. Preston, that the 
treaty obligations of the United States with Mexico, will 
not long be an obstacle to the accomplishment of this 
annexation. These may indeed be removed, but the ob- 
jection arising from the other circumstances, which have 
been spoken of in connexion with them, will remain. 
Mexico may be obliged to acknowledge the independence 
of Texas. She may be forced by the course of singular 



30 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

diplomacy adopted by our government in its intercourse 
with her, (which reflects little honor upon our public 
functionaries,) into a war ; she may, in the event, or even 
in fear of such a war, purchase peace by the relinquish- 
ment of Texas to the United States. But this forced 
outward consent, wrung from her weakness, will not alter 
our real position, or take one shade from the deep stain 
of our guilt. The acquisition of Texas would still have 
stamped upon it the character of a great public robbery, 
and blacken this page of our history forever. 

But, considered independently of our relation with 
Mexico, what would be the effects of this annexation, 
upon our national condition and character ? 

Even they, who hold that the power exists, of uniting 
with us a foreign nation, must admit its dangerous ten- 
dency, and that it should be exercised only with the 
greatest caution, and where the national benefits to be 
derived from it are manifest. They were so in the case 
of Louisiana. We secured, by its acquisition, the undis- 
turbed navigation of the Mississippi, and its outlet to the 
sea ; and the territory, which came to us, with these ad- 
vantages, was looked upon but as an incident. The great 
object was, not to extend our territory, but to secure, 
strengthen and benefit our existing possessions. But do 
any such reasons exist, to prompt us to this farther an- 
nexation ? Texas, indeed, in its great extent, embraces 
lands of singular fertility. But we have enough already 
within our domain, to stimulate sufficiently for the pres- 
ent the spirit of speculation, and to supply, for its true 
purposes, the growth of many generations. The mere 
increase of territory, in itself, would be a curse and not a 
blessing. It would make our government yet more un- 



1838. SENATE— No. 50. 31 

wieldy — add to the already alarming extent of power and 
patronage in our executive — foster all our military inter- 
ests — increase the occasions and bitterness of sectional 
strife and jealousy, and double all our principal dangers. 
But this annexation would be attended with many pecu- 
liar and positive disadvantages. It would add to our 
borders a long line of exposed and defenceless sea coast : 
greatly multiply the occasions and incentives of war : 
bring new and vast tribes of Indians within our territory, 
creating questions of difficulty and embarrassment be- 
tween them and our government (till they should become, 
in their turn, the victims of its policy ;) and necessarily 
require a great augmentation of our standing army. It 
would bring in its train other effects, operating upon the 
physical as well as moral strength and resources of this 
nation, which would be felt in all coming time. 

If, then, this measure would not be of national advan- 
tage, why is it urged ? The answer to this question is 
easy. The objects of this accession are not national. 
They are, besides those of which we have spoken, to 
promote and strengthen the a peculiar interests" of the 
South. This motive, strange as it may seem, is openly 
avowed by its friends. In their own language, " The 
south wish to have Texas admitted into the Union for 
two reasons. First, to equalize the south with the north, 
and secondly, as a convenient and safe place, calculated, 
from its peculiarly good soil and salubrious climate, for a 
slave population." 

There is, happily, no disguise upon this subject. The 
objects, thus distinctly announced, are boldly avowed by 
the southern papers, in the addresses of their statesmen 
to the people, and stand out in bold relief upon the pub- 
lished proceedings of their Legislatures. And it is a stik- 



32 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Fell. 

ing fact that the report to the House of Representatives 
of Mississippi, unanimously adopted by that body, urging 
the acquisition of Texas almost exclusively upon these 
grounds, was referred to, and inclosed by Gen. Hunt, the 
minister of Texas, in one of his communications to our 
Secretary of State. 

It is difficult to meet such positions, founded solely upon 
sectional views, and urging the measure, not only at the 
expense of the interests of the North, but of the welfare 
and honor of the country, in that temper and spirit, which 
become the discussion of a question of such immense im- 
portance. But, although the argument would seem to 
carry its own refutation upon its face, the committee will 
yet briefly analyse it, that there may be no mistake as to 
its character. It consists, in form, of two parts, though 
it is difficult entirely to separate them. It is said then — 

1. That Texas ought to be admitted into the Union, 
because it will increase the relative power and weight of 
the Southern States in this confederacy. 

But ought the power of one portion of the country to be 
sacrificed for the mere purpose of increasing that of an- 
other ? It may be, that there are cases, where such a re- 
sult may rightfully occur in the security of a great com- 
mon good, and laws, from their nature, must often scat- 
ter their benefits unequally, — but who can give to a meas- 
ure, which has this inequality for its object, — which pro- 
poses deliberately the taking from one and the giving to 
the other, not as an incident merely, but as an end, any- 
other character than that of gross and flagrant wrong? 

But this is not the whole truth. At the time of the adop- 
tion of the Constitution, compromises were entered into 



1838. SENATE— No. 50. 33 

between the North and the South, the conditions of whicfo 
would, by such a measure, be unreasonably violated. 
The committee have before spoken of these, in reference 
to the constitutionality of this measure. They agaiu 
consider them, to exhibit its palpable injustice. The free 
states were then in a decided majority, and it was supposed 
that the admission of the new states, provided for by the 
ordinances of Congress, would increase this ascendency. 
It was for this reason, and in the belief then almost uni- 
versally expressed, and, it is presumed, entertained, that 
slavery would nowhere within our boundaries be of long 
continuance, that the South exacted from the North con- 
cessions and guaranties for the protection of their pecu- 
liar institutions. Of these, the representation of three- 
fifths of their slaves in the House of Representatives, and 
the election of President, &c, is perhaps the most re- 
markable ; — a representation founded upon no just gen- 
eral principle, and which can only be justified by the 
state of things, of which we have spoken. 

Probably it was not imagined in that day, that the 
power thus granted, would ever number twenty-five rep- 
resentatives of Congress, and twenty-five electors, as it 
now does; a power, which has controlled almost every na- 
tional election and public measure of the country for many 
years. The North does not complain of this, however, so 
long as the condition of things is not intentionally changed. 
She will fulfil her bond, though she did not anticipate the 
extent of its obligations. But when the proposition is 
directly made to destroy the balance of power, and still 
keep the equivalent which was given for it, it should be 
met throughout the free states with united and determin- 
ed resistance. Out of the territory of Texas it is pro- 
posed to carve from six to eight states as large as Ken- 
5 



34 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

tueky, and still after acquiring this preponderance, the 
slave-holding states are to have the advantage of their un- 
equal representation, of electors and members of Congress. 
What could be more odious, or involve a grosser violation 
of public faith, than such a result, brought about, not ac- 
cidentally, but striven for and attained for its own sake ? 

If the constitutionality of such a measure were only 
doubtful upon the literal construction of the instrument, 
there can be no doubt that its accomplishment would vio- 
late its spirit, and at least dissolve every moral obligation 
which binds the north to the Union. 

But even this consideration sinks into insignificance, 
when compared with the other object of this annexation, 
which proposes, secondly, by an act of the national govern- 
ment, to extend and perpetuate the system of slavery. It 
would, undoubtedly, by opening a new market, and great- 
ly increasing the demand, for slaves, be of great pecuniary 
advantage to at least portions of the south, but it would 
be at the sacrifice of a higher principle than avarice, and 
a greater good than money. It is said in an address de- 
livered at Frankfort, Ky. in 1828, by a gentleman of the 
highest standing, that, prior to the annexation of Louisiana, 
the price of an adult slave was about one hundred dollars. 
By the demand, created in the settlement of the new 
lands, the price was increased many fold. — Mr. Gholson 
remarked in the Virginia Legislature in 1832, that when 
the act of Louisiana was passed, forbidding the further 
importation of slaves, their price fell immediately twenty- 
five per cent. But he added, that " he believed the ac- 
quisition of Texas would raise their price fifty per cent, 
at least/' A similar calculation was made by one of the 
judges of the supreme court in the last convention of 
that Commonwealth, and the same general opinion is 
widely diffused throughout the south. Here may be seen 



1838. SENATE— No. 50. 35 

the nature and degree of the interest, which demands the 
annexation of Texas. The result of the measure would 
be, to strengthen slavery where it exists, and to extend 
its curse, over a new and vast region, from which it has 
been banished by its legitimate government. It has been 
said, indeed, that the evil will not be increased by this 
measure, for while its sphere will be enlarged, the number 
of its subjects will remain the same. But this view over- 
looks not only the probable revival of the African trade, 
with all its horrors, which the extended coast of Texas 
will invite and cover from detection, and the direct in- 
centives to an internal traffic, which will have many of 
its features, but also the laws of supply and demand, 
which, in their relation to population, are as undoubted 
as the axioms of mathematics. The effect is certain up- 
on the welfare of our country, and the happiness of unborn 
millions. There was a period in our history, when such a 
measure would have found few open advocates ; when 
the system of slavery was alike regarded with abhorrence 
throughout our country. How long ago is it, when none 
were found bold enough to defend slavery in the abstract? 
Till recently, southern as well as northern statesmen char- 
acterized it as in itself a system of oppression and wrong, 
irreconcilable with any notion of natural justice, and 
inflicting countless evils upon society, and any attempt 
to palliate it in its origin, as a solemn trifling with 
reason. But the guilt of its origin as it existed, they 
charged rightly upon others — and they only justified 
its continuance among themselves, by the imperious neces- 
sity, which had been imposed upon them by their peculiar 
condition, and because, as they alleged, its sudden and vi- 
olent removal, interwoven as it was with the whole tex- 
ture of society, would bring misery to the slaves and ruin 
to their masters, [low can these former opinions of the 



36 ANNEXATION OF TEXAS. Feb. 

south be reconciled with the measure which is now 
urged by a large portion, at least, of her citizens ? 
A practice wrong in itself, if it can be excused from 
necessity, must at least be limited to that necessity ; and 
whenever it exceeds these limits, it is crime. If the 
opinions of the south are changed upon this subject, as it 
is said they are, and she now looks upon that system as 
a good, which she once regarded as an almost unmitigated 
evil, then indeed may she consistently labor to increase 
its strength and extend its influences. But let her ask 
no aid, no consent of Massachusetts to such an enterprise! 
Her position, at least, is unchanged. It has only been 
strengthened by the lights of the age, and the testimony 
of other and distant nations. She stands now where she 
did at her birth, as a free State, and, with the blessing of 
God, she will stand there, erect and firm and undaunted 
to the last. She disclaims all right of political inter- 
ference with the exclusive authority which belongs to the 
several States, over the subject of slavery within their 
respective limits ; and all constitutional guaranties, how- 
ever incautiously entered into, she will " fulfil in the ful- 
ness of their spirit, and to the exactness of their letter/' 
But, when her assistance or acquiescence is asked, to a 
national act, for the purpose of giving to slavery new life 
and vigor and extension, if she did not unhesitatingly and 
indignantly reject the proffer, she would indeed be un- 
worthy of her origin, and forgetful or regardless of the 
great and peculiar glory of her history. 

If the revival of the African slave-trade were not the 
consequence of this act, would not almost every element 
of its guilt be united in it, and stand out upon the annals 
of the United States a lasting testimony to its inconsis- 
tency, hypocrisy, and crime ? In the language of Mr. 



1338. SENATE— No. 50. 37 

Webster, on the Missouri question, which is applicable 
with ten-fold force at this time, and to this occasion. 
What is it, thus to extend the evils of slavery to a new 
country, "but to encourage that rapacity, and fraud, and 
violence, against which we have so long pointed the de- 
nunciations of our penal code ? What is it but to tarnisli 
the proud fame of the country ? What is it but to throw 
suspicion on its good faith, and render questionable all its 
professions of regard for the rights of humanity, and the 
liberty of mankind ?" 

Your committee therefore propose to the Legislature, 
the adoption of the accompanying resolutions, protesting 
against the annexation of Texas to this Union. They be- 
lieve, that this question is fraught with consequences which 
can hardly be over estimated, involving, indeed, the future 
destiny of this republic, and with it the welfare and hap- 
piness of millions ; and that the day on which it shall be 
decided, will be the most eventful day in our history. 

Massachusetts then, should arouse all her energies for 
the contest; so that, if in the end the wrong shall prevail, 
"and the worst come, that can come, she may have the 
satisfaction to know that she has discharged her duty," 
and that no responsibility for the event, can be charged 
upon her action on the one side, or her apathy on the 
other. 

All which is respectfully submitted. 

For the Committee, 

JAMES C. ALVORD, Chairman. 



3J? 



RESOLVES 



Against the Annexation of Texas to the United States. 

Whereas a proposition to admit into the United States, 
as a constituent member thereof, the foreign nation of 
Texas, has been recommended by the legislative resolu- 
tions of several States, and brought before Congress for 
its approval and sanction : and whereas such a measure 
would involve great wrong to Mexico, and otherwise be 
of evil precedent, injurious to the interests, and dishonor- 
able to the character of this country ; and whereas its 
" avowed objects are doubly fraught with peril to the pros- 
perity and permanency of this Union," as tending to dis- 
turb and destroy the conditions of those compromises and 
concessions, entered into at the formation of the Constitu- 
tion, by which the relative weight of different sections 
and interests were adjusted, — and to strengthen and extend 
the evils of a system, which is unjust in itself, in striking 
contrast with the theory of our institutions, and condemn- 
ed by the moral sentiment of mankind: and whereas the 
people of these United States have not granted to any or 
all of the departments of their government, but have re- 
tained in themselves, the only power adequate to the ad- 
mission of a foreign nation into this confederacy: — therefore 



1838. SENATE— No. 50. 39 

Resolved, That we the Senate and House of Repre- 
sentatives, in General Court assembled, do, in the name 
of the people of Massachusetts, earnestly and solemnly 
protest against the annexation of Texas to this Union, 
and declare that no act done, or compact made, for such 
purpose, by the government of the United States, will be 
binding on the States, or the People. 

Resolved, That his Excellency the Governor be re- 
quested, to forward a copy of these Resolves to each of 
our Senators and Representatives in Congress, and to 
each of the Executives of the several States. 



