res. S^P^'^h '^^'^ 



A 



^ATmXAB.&MA'L SYSTEM Or BQ^imT'E^ 

AS IT EXISTS IN 

SOME GOVERNMENTS AND COLONIES IN AMERICA, 
AND IN THE UNITED STATES, 



THE NAME OF SLAVERY, 



WITH ITS J^ECESSITY AJ^D ADFA^TdGES. 



BY AN INHABITANT OF FLORIDA. 



THIRD EDITION, WITH AN APPENDIX. 



1833. 



0^5- 5575.36 v^O.a 



Digitized by tine Internet Arcinive 

in 2011 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/treatiseonpatriaOOking 



PREFACE. 



It will be allowed by every one, that agriculture is 
the great foundation of the wealth and prosperity of 
our Southern States. This important science has al- 
ready attracted some share of attention from men of 
the first talents, by whose improvements in cultivation 
several valuable productions promise, from their su- 
periority, to maintain a preference in foreign markets ; 
and the recent introduction of new articles of tropical 
produce into the southern districts, where they bid fair 
to succeed, offers still greater incitements to agricultu- 
ral enterprise, and opens a new and extensive range 
for future speculation. 

While this great field of wealth and independence 
promises now to be well understood and duly appre- 
ciated, the primary cause and means by which alone it 
can be realized, has either escaped attention, or been 
designedly overlooked: I mean the perpetuation of 
that kind of labor which now produces it, and which 
seems best adapted, under all circumstances, to ren- 
der it profitable to the Southern capitalist. 

The idea of slavery, when associated with cruelty 
and injustice, is revolting to every philanthropic mind ; 
but when that idea is associated with justice and be- 
nevolence, slavery, commonly so called, easily amal- 
gamates with the ordinary conditions of life. 

To counteract the existing prejudice against slave- 
ry, by making it evident that the condition of slaves 
may be equally happy and more independent of the 
ordinary evils of life, than that of the common class of 
whites denominated free — that they are now equally 
virtuouS; moral, and less corrupted than the ordinary 



PREFACE. 



class of laboring whites — that their labor is far more 
productive — that they yield more support and benefit 
to the State, which, under a well regulated system of 
management, is better fitted to endure a state of war 
than it would be with an equal number of free white 
people of ordinary means and condition ; and, finally, 
that the Slave or Patriarchal System of Society [so of- 
ten commiserated as a subject of deep regret] which 
constitutes the bond of social compact of the South- 
ern seaboard of the United States, is better adapted 
for strength, durability, and independence, than any 
other state of society hitherto adopted. To endeavor 
to prove all this, and to destroy the prejudice existing 
against slavery, under the circumstances with which 
it is now associated in the South, is the object of the 
present essay; dedicated to the people of Florida, 
and to political economists throughout the Southern 
States, by a votary of rational policy, and 

most respectfully 

their humble servant, 

Z. KiNGSLEy. - 



*^* See notes at the end. 



A TREATISE 



THE PATRIAMCHAI. SI.AVE SYSTEM. 



That there is a large portion of territory in the Southern states 
unfavorable to the health and production of white people, is evident 
from the sickly appearance of nearly the whole seaboard laboring 
white population, extending from the Chesapeake Bay to the Mis- 
sissippi, This sickly appearance is most observed among the low- 
er orders, who are exposed to the weather ; and it can only be 
accounted for by supposing that nature has not fitted a white com- 
plexion for hard work in the sun, as it is evident that the darkness 
of complexion here is a measure of capacity for endurance of labor, 
under that influence. 

Many, from a superficial view of things, suppose that the aver- 
sion to labor observable in the South, among the working classes 
of whites, proceeds fz'om natural indisposition. But a nearer view, 
and better acquaintance with facts will show, that the radical cause 
is the want of health, which produces an apathy or aversion to work 
and frequently a relaxation, or want of natural excitement in the 
powers of life, which seek artificial stimulants ; as we see frequent 
instances of the strongest, soberest, and most industrious mechanics 
coming from the North, becoming, after a few years hard labor, 
weak and idle, and finally, falling a sacrifice to the abuse of ardent 
spirits. Some are of opinion, that the want of health in these 
classes, is owing to their being unaccustomed to a hot climate. But 
as many years have elapsed since the first white people settled 
among the Southern swamps, and their descendants have not im- 
proved either in looks or longevity, it becomes evident that people 
of white complexions are unfitted by nature for that situation. (2) 

Some of our Northern neighbors, living in a state of health and 
affluence, and not being aware that this prosperous state, in many 
instances, proceeds indirectly from Southern slave labor, and with- 
out duly investigating, and comparing the hardships, and humilia- 
tion of the lower condition of their white population with the more 
comfortable state of the Southern negroes, have denounced the 
Patriarchal state of subordination of the latter, called Slavery, as the 
most abject and miserable of all possible grades of human existence. 
Now it appears to me, that no one state can be perfectly free from 



6 

tliese evils ; but that all must experience some modifications of 
depeadence.(3) The uegro, under the management of a just, con- 
scientious, and humane master, (of which description it will cer- 
tainly be allowed that there are some,) who provides for the physical 
wants of his servants, his wife and children, in health, sickness 
and old age, for no other consideration than the equitable one of 
competent labor, wbcn in health, will surely enjoy a happier and 
more enviable stale of existence than the poor v/hile man, burdened 
with a family, who has to contend with cold and hunger, besides 
religious and moral tyranny. 

Moreover, the free white man, with the greatest economy and 
industry, usually consumes nearly the whole product of his labor ; 
laying by but little, even under the most favorable circumstances, 
but with a smaller stock of prudence and exertion, which more 
commonly happens, he not only consumes all his earnings, but is 
compelled by cold, hunger, and want of employment, or ill health, 
to apply to the public for charity. Whereas the negro by his labor, 
disci'eetly restrained under the Patriarchal System, not only furnish- 
es clothing, implements of husbandry, and provisions, but creates a 
large export surplus lo meet contingencies ; thus increasing the 
comifort and capital of the establishment, of which he considers 
himself an integral part. (4) 

In shortj the greatest value of agricultural product for export, 
and nearly all the springs of national and individual prosperity, 
flow from slave labor, as is fairly demonstrated by our annual ac- 
count of exports. It could not reasonably be expected otherwise. 
The labor of the negro, under the wholescme restraint of an intelli- 
gent direction, is like a constant stream ; that of the white man is 
economically measured out by his urgent necessities, or dissipated 
by his expenses. Besides, climate enables the one to furnish arti- 
cles of greater value ; while the white man's labor is usually applied 
to raise cheap articles of food for the mere subsistence of himself 
and family. 

Such is the comparative usefulness of these two classes of society 
in our present state of peace. But to render a slave holding country 
stronger and equally advantageous in a state of war, against which 
it ought always to be prepared ; or, in other words, to neutralize the 
spirit of disaffection which necessarily results from every uneoual 
distribution of privileges ; it will be requisite to alter a little our 
present policy.(5) Before, however, we begin, and by way of get- 
ting rid of some slight prejudices, it might be well to take a view of 
some other slave holding countries, which have already undergone 
the test of experiment, and successfully resisted all the disorganizin<y 
temptations and insidious machinations of powerful, but, as yet, un- 
successful enemies ;(6) and endeavor to obtain safe and conclusive 
evidence from eatablished precedents exactly applicable to our cir- 
cumstauces. 



First, I wiii take a view of Brazil, (7) which is by far the most 
powerful and extensile slave holding country in America, or in the 
world ; its population consists of something less than one million 
of whites, something more than one million of free colored, and 
considerably over two millions of slaves. It passed through such a 
war of revolution as our own, from the colonial state to that of an. 
independent government, attended with all the violence of con- 
flicting interests, opinions, and consequent hostility of royal and 
independent partizans, with their hostile armies. It now ranks, as 
Empire of Brazil, perhaps the most extensive government in the 
world, and is carrying on war with the free Republic of Buenos 
Ayres ; with its white and free colored population, it has fitted out, 
manned, and sent to sea, nearly forty ships of war, and has raised 
or sent to the frontiers, nearly fifty thousand regular troops. It 
now affords the grand imposing spectacle of a slave holding govern- 
ment, whose population greatly preponderates in favor of color, at 
war with a free republic, which constitutionally disavows slavery, 
and which not only endeavors to subdue it by force of arms, but to 
subvert it by inflammatory proclamations, ofiering freedom and 
protection to the slaves as their reward for revolt. But all these 
disorganizing temptations have heretofore failed; the slaves main- 
tain their obligation, and do their work peaceably as usual ; fur- 
nishing produce and means, not only to support the national credit, 
but to carry on the war, and repel the bearers of these insidious 
proclamations. This trait of virtue and fidelity in the Brazilian 
slaves, is to be attributed to humane and just treatment. 

The door of liberty is open to every slave who can find the means 
of purchasing himself. It is true, few have the means, but hope 
creates a spirit of economy, industry, and emulation to obtain merit 
by good behavior, which has a general and beneficial eftect. 
Slaves are also allovi^ed to hold some kind of property, under limi- 
tation — such as stock. But the grand chain of security by which 
the slaves are held in subordination, is the free people of color, 
whose persons, properties, and rights are protected by law ; which 
enables them to acquire and hold property in their own name, and 
allows the free children of quarteroons by a white man, to be white 
by law. By this link, they become identified with the whites on 
one side, and with the slaves by descent on the other ; a connexion 
which perfectly cements the three castes of which the whole cation 
is composed ; and each being perfectly contented with its perma- 
nent, lawful privileges, the jealousy, which might otherwise arise 
from caste or difterence of complexion or condition, is totally ex- 
tinguished, and no one feels an interest in disturbing that with 
which every one is satisfied. 

The British colonial policy is fast verging to the same point. Its 
object is to improve the education and mental attainments of its 
free colored population, as well as to protect its slaves from unjust 
oppression. 



8 

The free colored people are thus gradually rendered fit to take 
place of the whites, whose lives have long been uselessly sacrificed 
to a hot climate, which does not, nor ever can agree with them. 
They have so far progressed, as to fill up a great deal of agricultural 
as well as mercantile room, and most of the militia troops, with 
free colored people, who are good mechanics, well educated, and of 
great respectability : so that a very considerable share of landed 
property has already passed into their hands. Their law also en- 
titles the children of free quarteroons to all white privileges, if the 
father is white. By this policy they unite the two castes, who be- 
come equally interested in maintaining good order and contentment 
among the slaves. 

The Spanish, French, and Butch Colonies have all adopted the 
same policy. 

The island of Saint Domingo is now independent under ita abo- 
riginal name Hayti.(8) Its colonial tranquility was first disturbed 
by national edicts, which the French people, while frantic with 
revolutionary zeal, madly promulgated in their colonies. This 
dangerous fanaticism soon spread itself among the slave holders, 
who being divided in two great political factions, nearly equal in 
strength, armed their slaves to support their own political opinions. 
This, together with their pride in denying the participation of 
equality to the free colored people, caused the destruction of that 
flourishing and important colony. The fall, and final extinction 
of its colonial power, and its subsequent re-establishment under a 
free and independent government of negroes in our vicinity, fur- 
nishes, in a variety of incidents which took place during its whole 
course, abundant examples of situation, occurrences, and facts, 
from which we may establish consequences that would apply to 
almost every possible situation in which we could imagine slaves of 
a similar class to our own to be placed. 

To infuse a general spirit of revolt among the numerous planta- 
tions of St. Domingo, appears to have been a matter which required 
both time and labor to accomplish ; especially as some departments 
were more prudent than others, and tried to counteract it. San- 
thonax and Polvorel, the commissioners sent out from France to 
enforce the national decrees of liberty and equality, were the most 
active and successful propagators of liberty. But in many of the 
quarters, the slaves still continued to work, even without white over- 
seers ; and furnished large quantities of coffee for exportation during 
the whole government of Toussaint. And, what is still more re- 
markable, the rich and expensive department of Grande Anse con- 
tinued to furnish nearly its usual quantity of produce, and remained 
quiet for several years after the commencement of the revolution, 
aud until Jeremie was evacuated by the British, notwithstanding 
that this department was annually beseiged by Generals ToussainE 
and Rigaud, commanding the armies of The South and of the West, 



accompanied by all their seditious proclamations. The slaves were 
armed by their masters, and protected themselves and families vfhile 
they made abundant crops of coffee. In short, when we come to 
consider the massacres and bloodshed necessarily attending such a 
horrid revolution, where a vast number of slaves were forced into a 
state of licentious anarchy, and led on by partizans blinded by 
revolutionary fury, who gave no quarter on either side, it is astonish- 
ing that the slaves now liberated should have so soon returned to a 
peaceable and quiet state of domestic order, and again admitted 
whites to reside peaceably among them, and enjoy all the pre-emi- 
nence that condition could give.(9) But such was the fact ; and 
considering that they were still acting on the defensive against the 
British, who, for many years after, and with all their disposable 
force, endeavored to subdue them, it is a matter of astonishment 
and wonder how so much produce was still made as was exported 
under the reign of Toussaint, and until the arrival of the grand 
French expedition under Rochambeau and Leclerc, (in 1802 — 3,) 
when the island was again thrown into anarchy, and would have 
been ultimately re-conquered but for the breaking out of the war 
afresh between France and Britain, which suspended the farther 
progress of the conquest, and finally confirmed its independence. 
Its government has now settled under the form of a military Repub- 
lic ; but the quantity of produce raised bears but little proportion to 
what it was under the Patriarchal restraint of its Colonial system of 
government, as the present state of individual emancipation implies 
less necessity for hard work, especially in a healthy, fertile, and 
mild climate such as Hayti, where few clothes are required, and 
bountiful nature produces spontaneously the necessaries of life. 

From all these facts it follows, that, under a just and prudent 
system of management, negroes are safe, permanent, productive 
and growing property, and easily governed ; that they are not na- 
turally desirous of change, but are sober, discreet, honest and obli- 
ging, are less troublesome, and possess a much better moral character 
than the ordinary class of corrupted whites of similar condition. (10) 

Their strong attachment to their homes, to their wives and 
children, and to domestic life, are likewise great securities for their 
good behavior ; which, with a fair and equitable allowance of 
clothes and provisions, kind treatment when sick, and fair words 
when well, will, in most cases, insure good behavior, obedience, and 
attachment. Under these circumstances they will, without grum- 
bling, and with very little corporeal punishment, perform a great 
deal of valuable labor in a year, and with profit and satisfaction to 
the owner, who, if prudent, will soon find himself in easy circum- 
stances, and feel happy in experiencing the attachment, confidence, 
and good will of a grateful and happy people.(ll) 

The policy generally pursued by our own slave holding state 
governments with regard to free colored people, and that pursued 

2 



10 

by foreign colonial and other slave holding governments, is directly 
opposite. In the latter, the free colored people have found it their 
interest universally and decidedly to place themselves in the scale 
of the whites, or in opposition to the slaves. (12) In the former, 
necessity, from the unfavorahle construction of the laws, has com- 
pelled them universally to throw themselves into the scale of the 
slaves in opposition to the whites. This difference of policy adopt- 
ed by these different governments, who have precisely the same 
views and interests to favor, and the same objects to guard against, 
is obviously owing to the difference of local circumstances, growing 
out of the different situations of the two countries with regard to 
population and government. 

In our greatest slave holding states which take the lead, the great 
majority of the inhabitants is white, who boast of enjoying every 
privilege of free men, but possessing a strong feeling of prejudice 
against every other shade of color, and inhabiting a high, healthy 
country, suitable to the labor of white people, to whom colored 
labor is not absolutely necessary. This majority has the right of 
forming the laws to govern the minority, or slave holding part of 
these states, lying nearest the sea, to whom a colored popula- 
tion is absolutely necessary, and with the safety and good govern- 
ment of which a smaller degree of prejudice against color would 
better comport. But as the great quantity of whites in the up 
country is at all times ready to put down or exterminate all the 
colored people in case of insurrection, fear and force in governing 
these people are safely substituted for wisdom and policy. (14) 

The operation of physical causes has induced the foreign slave 
holding colonies and governments to adopt a policy diametrically 
opposite. Their climates being unfavorable to the increase of the 
whites, has thrown a great majority into the scale of the free color- 
ed people, many of whom, being rich and liberally educated, enjoy 
great respectability, and having the same interest with the whites, 
and great influence with the slaves, form a barrier to insurrection ; 
which not only makes life and property safe in time of peace, but 
renders the whole physical strength of the country completely dis- 
posable in time of war. 

North Carolina, by the liberal provisions of her constitution and 
enhghtened policy to her free colored people, stands firmer with re- 
gard to slave property than any state to the south, not even except- 
ing Louisiana. A generaUineoflimitation might be drawn between 
white and colored, such as exists in the British West India colonies. 
Taxes in all rases should be equal ; and the law both criminal and 
civil should be as impartial as the sun. If it is otherwise, what kind 
of protection can be given either to person or to property ; and what 
must be the final result where neither is given ? 

I beUeve no disadvantage has ever been perceived in North Caro- 
lina from its free citizens of color being allowed to vote. 



11 

It appears from the above statement, that to raise the value of 
southern plantation property to its just scale of purchase value, 
according to the rate of interest yielded by its neat average return 
of crops, to bear an equal proportion with the value and returns of 
real property in the north, which is the principal object of this 
treatise, it may be considered necessary — 

1st. To put all fear of danger, either to person or property, from 
insurrection of the slaves, at rest. 

2d. To destroy all doubt of the permanent durability of such pro- 
perty in case of war or invasion. 

3d. To extinguish that general foreign or northern prejudice 
against holding slave property, which commonly arises from their 
mistaken view of our policy and laws to regulate slaves and free 
colored people. 

To accomplish these objects will require a considerable sacrifice 
of local prejudice to the shrine of self interest, with some small 
mixture of discretion, which I flatter myself the present enlightened 
state of society, improved by its advancement in the science of po- 
litical economy, will, in consideration of the proposed advantages, 
liberally bestow. 

The red aborigines were in this low country a healthy people. 
The negroes are not only a healthy people, but robust and durable 
even in swamps. 

The intermediate grades of color are not only healthy, but when 
condition is favorable, they are susceptible of every amelioration. 
Daily experience shows that there is no natural antipathy between 
the castes on account of color ; and it only requires to repeal laws 
as impolitic as they are unjust and unnatural ; which confound 
merit and condition with infamy and degradation on account of 
complexion, and to leave nature to find out a safe and wholesome 
remedy for evils which are merely imaginary. 



12 

APPENDIX. 



Since the year 1S29, when the second edition of this pamphlet 
was pubUshed, the subject of our colored population has been pretty- 
fully discussed in several of the State Legislatures of this Union, 
without arriving at any positive or satisfactory conclusion, as to how 
it would be safest and best to dispose of them, so as to avoid the 
risk of reaction from their resentment. 

The alarm occasioned by the massacre at Southampton, natural- 
ly caused a fear and diffidence in that quarter, which spread itself 
throughout the slave holdijjg states, and operated with extreme 
cruelty and injustice against all the colored people, by confounding 
the innocent with the guilty ; and it is hardly a matter of doubt 
whether or not the excessive rigor and cruelty of these consequent 
enactments has not been very prejudicial to the slave holding in- 
terest, by causing a general feeling of compassion which is natural- 
ly excited in favor of helpless innocence, when oppressed by relent- 
less tyranny. Colonization in Africa has been proposed to the free 
colored people, to forward which a general system of persecution 
against them, upheld from the pulpit, has been legalized through- 
out the southern states, which leaves them the sad alternative of 
submitting to a condition worse than slavery, or of leaving the 
country to which nativity has given them a natural right, to go 
where sickness, privations and barbarity must soon put an end to all 
their troubles ; in this dilemma it is to be hoped that some way of 
escape will present itself. 

The same subject has excited an interest gradually proportioned 
to its magnitude, throughout all the American colonies, and has 
been regulated by acts of legislation dictated by circumstances 
connected with the views and prejudices of each. 

The Swedish, Danish and French, have abolished the distinction 
of color where the parties are free, by admitting them to a partici- 
pation of equal rights. The British have gone still further, and not 
only assimilated the interests of the free people of color of their 
colonies with those of the whites, but have threatened to extend 
their legislation to the emancipation of the slaves ; this premature 
interference is generally condemned, as tending to overturn and 
destroy civilization, by too suddenly admitting an overwhelming 
proportion of ignorant and uncivilized people into society. 

The Spanish colonies of Cuba and Puerto Rico have flourished 
beyond example without altering the wise, libera), and humane 
policy of their former system, which protected the slaves from acts 
of cruelty and injustice, and at the same time united the interests 
of the free colored people to those of the whites, so as to form one 



13 

consolidated mass of effective force under the complete control of 
their government. 

Cuba, perhaps, under its present circumstances, stands more in- 
dependent of external help, than any other slave holding govern- 
ment in America, except Brazil. Its population may be estimated 
at one million, one third of which is free people, all united in the 
same interest ; the other two thirds are slaves, who, being justly 
treated, have never manifested any signs of discontent. Its soil is 
extremely fertile, its climate is healthy, its situation convenient for 
commerce, which it carries on with its own people, its export pro- 
ductions are immense, and its revenue competent for all the purposes 
of good government. 

The empire of Brazil was left in a former edition of this work, at 
%var with its neighbor, the republic Buenos Ayres, which has since 
happily terminated, and proved the possibility of a country whose 
revenues and government depend entirely upon slave labor for sup- 
port, being so entirely independent as not to require any foreign or 
external protection to enable it to resist a foreign enemy, without 
fear of a revolt from its own numerous slave population. Since the 
termination of that war, several political convulsions and party re- 
volutions have happened within it; just enough to prove its stability, 
but there has been no sign or suspicion of any discontent among the 
slaves ; and it now stands fairly and firmly upon its own national 
resources, and solely under its own protection, unparalleled in its 
extent, situation, and prospects of greatness derived from its healthy 
climate, fertility, and extent of territory, all convenient for commerce, 
which is extensively carried on by its own inhabitants, and protect- 
ed by equitable and just laws. It now proudly and practically 
claims the only banner of actual independence belonging to any 
slave holding state in America. 

Since that period, also, our own colored population, having been 
consolidated into one mass and identified with slavery by our state 
laws, has retrogaded exceedingly in the southern states, without 
producing the desired effect of increasing the proportion of whites, 
and has proved incontestibly, I think, that the policy of perse- 
cuting the free colored people to induce them to sacrifice their na- 
tive attachments and property for banishment to Africa, is at variance 
with the prosperity and interests of the South, and tends to lower 
the price of property by destroying the prospect of its durability. 

By persecution we force them off, and place them in a situation 
to retaliate upon us in case of war, and perhaps to glut their ven- 
geance upon us at some future period, for no person can seriously 
believe that they are going to remain long in a savage and sterile 
country like Liberia, when so many healthy, fertile, and civilized 
countries, every where around, are inviting them to citizenship, and 
we well know that revenge for cruelty and injustice is a hereditary 
passion in human nature : handed down from father to son, it never 
dies until satiated by atonement. 



14 

As any argument about the justice and right of such laws can 
'always be answered by the plea of expediency, it would be useless 
to enter into it farther than to observe that the policy of unjust laws 
is more than doubtful in any case whatever, especially as attended by 
the hostility naturally consequent to acts of cruelty and injustice, 
which must necessarily produce resentment uncompensated for by 
any subsequent benefit. This could never have been fairly consid- 
ered, or it never would have been attempted. 

First, T will allow that it is physically possible to exterminate all 
the free colored people of the South, it makes no matter how ; say 
about one hundredth part of all the free colored people of this quar- 
ter of the world is destroyed, the quantity of resentment of the re- 
mainder, and of all justly thinking men, will still be measured by the 
atrocity of the act. 

Second. Will the same instinctive passion which caused their 
existence diminish, or will the same regular quantity of colored 
people still continue to be produced by that passion ? If it will, 
destroying the present existing race will be playing the part of the 
Danaides in the story, attempting to fill the continually leaking 
pitcher ; besides, this system of tyranny and injustice is a libel upon 
our pretended republican institutions, incompatible with our national 
character, and cannot be considered but as an affront and open 
violation of the morality and civilization of the age we live in. But 
what is still worse during its continuance, it evidently involves the 
necessary dependence of every individual slave holding state, upon 
foreign protection against itself. To point out how it would be 
invidious, no political association under the present laws against 
color could assure independence to the slave holding states. The 
want of ordinary population would render regular white soldiers 
difficult to be got as well as expensive, and quite inefficient in the 
sickly season, when they might be most wanted. And the want of 
sailors would render commerce too expensive to be carried on 
amongst ourselves, and foreigners would carry away as they do 
now, all the profits of our labor ; we therefore would be too poor 
to meet the expenses of such an exotic and unnatural independent 
government. Dependence therefore is our doom ; we must seek 
protection from the free states who have a disposable population 
to make soldiers of, or to man ships to protect us, and to carry away 
our produce together with all the profits of our labor. 

The consequences of some recent attempts at independence on 
the part of some slave holding states bring the above facts home to 
us ; therefore to irritate that necessary and unoffending class of 
people by cruelty and injustice is impolitic, and completely defeats 
the object of our ever becoming independent. 

The whole colored population of the United States, even including 
slaves, would not be more than one eighth part of those who im- 
mediately surround us ; destroy them all, root and branch, they 



15 ' _ 

eoultl easily be replaced at some future time ; but until they were 
replaced, our southern seaboard country would offer a safe retreat 
for the bear and the wolf without competition. 

Experiment is the fairest and most convincing argument ; truth 
itself is only proved by connecting insulated facts ; our mistaken 
system of policy has proved its fallacy by late events, and showed 
us that we are wrong ; to persist in error is dangerous ; let us take 
lessons from the laws of tliose countries which have already tested 
their policy by their beneficial effects with regard to slaves and free 
people of color, and who are all united and friendly to the interests 
of the whites, and to society generally ; similar causes must produce 
similar effects ; as we are the first in intelligence, so let us be first in 
the practice of political wisdom ; and by uniting the interests of our 
whole population with that of our government, in support of nation- 
al freedom and independence, rid ourselves of the most tormenting 
of all fecrs — that of ourselves. 

Query. What would be the natural consequence of granting the 
same legal protection to the persons and properties of all free peo- 
ple alike, or the free use and benefit of the law to protect themselves 1 

Answer. They would all have the same means of acquiring pro- 
perty, and all would feel equally interested in the public welfare 
and peace of the country. 

Query. Is the increase of free colored people injurious or bene- 
ficial to the seaboard country of the South ? 

Answer. In all the southern seaboard country which is unfavora- 
ble to the agricultural labors of white people, the increase ofa free co- 
lored population is not only beneficial, but absolutely necessary, to its 
stability and to cheapen the price of labor, without which neither 
domestic commerce, nor mechanical operations, nor manufactures 
can be carried on to advantage, as is clearly demonstrated by the 
present state of poverty and dependence of that section, owing evi- 
dently to the want of cheap labor, which can only be obtained from 
a settled population attached to the soil. 

Query. What national benefit is derived from the acts of out- 
lawry now in force against the free colored people of the south? 

Answer. No benefit whatever, but the greatest and most tor- 
menting of all evils — a conscious dread of criminal guilt, arisino- 
from the known tyranny of the lawless and unprincipled part of the 
white population which the law authorises to perpetrate every species 
of wicked abuse upon innocence and unoffending color, which is 
entirely excluded from legal protection, except through the means 
of white evidence. Moral restraint without the fear of law being 
so rare, as to create a doubt whether or not the conscientious prin- 
ciple of justice, independent of legal restraint, has any real existence 
in the human breast. 

Query. Has any property left by will to any colored person, 
ever been honestly and fairly administered by any white person 1 



16 

Answer. Such instances might possibly ha\?e happened, but 
never to my knowledge. 

Query. What must be the ultimate tendency of such a system 
of tyranny and injustice? 

Answer. By exciting the indignation of the world, it must ac- 
celerate its own downfall. A government whose laws grant exclu- 
sive privileges to the wicked and abandoned part of its population, 
to persecute and destroy the weak of another humble part, is a 
government of anarchy ; to call such a government a Republic, 
would be a gross libel on the name : it is ultra democracy or 
arnachy. 

Query. What remedy could be proposed for this unsafe state of 
society ? 

Answer. Either to modify or repeal the most oppressive parts 
the laws now in force, or to improve the moral principles of the 
lower orders of white society by a more liberal education, such as 
would govern their actions by principles of moral justice, without 
the constraint of law ; as the jealousy and injustice of the different 
grades of society, in their present conduct towards colored people 
seems to be graduated by the cultivation of their minds in moral 
economy, or the rule of conscientiously treating their fellow men 
justly, without regard to law, and just as they would like to be 
treated themselves, if placed under similar circumstances. Of the 
two remedies, the last would be the most radical and effectual, but 
being the most expensive and the most tedious, would come too 
late to remedy the present evils, which are now pressing upon society, 
and calling for immediate relief. 



[1] It will reasonably be inquired, who is the writer, and how presumes he to 
advise in contradiction to common practice and the refceived opinion of nine tenths 
of all the slave owners of the United States ? He answers that he is a slave own- 
er, and has aright to express his opinion, having lived by planting in Florida for 
the last twenty-five years. He disavows all other motives but that of increasing 
the value of his property ; moreover, he thinks that truth will support his argu- 
ments as to a subject with which he has had great opportunities of becoming well 
acquainted, having lived long in different slave holding countries. 

[2] This observation will apply to many of our farmers whose youth, strengtli, 
and ambition seem for several years to set the climate at defiance, but they are 
finally overcome by sickness, which brings on debility and premature old age. 

[3] Northern migration to the south for the purpose of gain in winter,and south- 
ern migration to the north to spend money in the summer, finally concentrate 
in the north the whole product of Southern slave labor. 

Slavery is a necessary state of control from which no condition of society canbe 
pei-fectly free. The term is applicable to, and fits all grades and conditions in 
almost every point of view, whether moral, physical, or political. 

It certainly is a mistaken notion, that the progress of labor, guided by the ac- 
cidental impulse of single individuals, is greater than that of systematic co-opera- 
tion, directed and controlled by a skilful mechanic and economist, under the 
patriarchal government; for it is evident that slaves taught early, could produce 
any kind of manufactured goods one third cheaper than free people ; the co-ope- 
rative system of labor being better calculated either to increase the quantity or to 
attain perfection in the manufacture ; and whenever labor, expended in manu- 
facturing cotton into cloth, yields more than it does when employed in raising the 
raw material, slaves will become manufacturers. 

[4] As white people are only wanted to act as overseers, or to fill vacancies in 
conformity to law, their number must always be limited to these wants and easy 
situations. But the number of colored people must eventually be bounded by the 
quantity and quality of soil from which they derive subsistence by manual labor. 

[5] Pride and prejudice, our present stumbling blocks in the management of 
our negroes, should give way topolicy and the necessity of self preservation, and 
induce us to remove as far as possible whatever ai'e the obvious causes of this dan- 
gerous spirit of revolt. 

Power may for a while triumph over weakness and misfortune. But as all na- 
ture (from the eternal principle of self) takes part with weakness against power, 
the re-action finally must be terrible and overwhelming. 

[6] Whoever was so unlucky as to see, on Cumberland Island, last war, the 
magical transformation of his own negroes, whom he left in the field but a few 
hours before, into regular soldiers, of good discipline and appearance, and with. 
what despatch and celerity the recruiting service went on under the protection 
of a few hundred marines, notwithstanding all the care and vigilance that were 
used to prevent desertion, could not help figuring to himselfthe consequences had 
there been a larger force, able to maintain a position on the main, with any ulterior 
object of conquest in view and possessing the means of equipment. Where would 
they have stopped, or what could have stopped them? 

[7] The empire of Brazil embraces, from north to south, about one thousand 
leagues of sea coast, and as many from east to west. The whole of this immense 
territory is a wholesome, temperate, and warm climate, is watered by the largest 
and most extensive rivers in the world, and possesses abundance of capacious 
and deep harbors for shipping, with inexhaustible quantities of incorruptible tim- 
ber, of which it has already built some of the finest first-rate ships of war and 

3 



18 

merchantmen that any country can boast of. Its export agricultural produce is 
fast approaching in value to that of the United States, and it is incontestably the 
most extensive, valued, rich, healthy, and best situated body of land under any 
one government in America: and bids fair, from its policy and form of g-overn- 
ment, which is a limited monarchy, to be one of the most durable. Its present 
population, being more than three fourths colored, will rapidly predominate on 
that side, on account of its convenient situation to Africa, its immense annual im- 
portation of slaves, its rich soil, its temperate and healthy climate, and more espe- 
cially from its great distance, and the expense of passages from Europe. With 
Chinese economy it may, at some period not very remote, compete in population 
with that most ancient Empire, which it greatly exceeds in extent. Of all other 
countries, in fact, itmost resembles China in its climate, fertility of soil, and com- 
plexion of inhabitants. 

[S] I heard of no instance of abuse or treachery on the part of the negroes of 
Grand Anse, during my residence in Jeremie, while it was held by the British : 
nor did I experience either insult or interruption in the south or west of St. Do- 
mingo, under the government of Touissant, or Rigaud. I resided there nearly a 
year, at one period, besides making frequent voyages, during which I often tra- 
velled alone, and on horseback, from Leogane to the Cayes, and from Petit-Goave 
to Jacquemel, through woods and over mountains, with my saddle bags loaded 
with specie to buy coffee ; and though I frequently met large groupes of armed 
negroes in the woods, I neither recieved insult or hindrance, but was always treat- 
ed with kindness and civility. Many Americans, (I may say hundreds,) at that 
time on the Island, can testify to the same treatment and circumstances. 

[9] This observation applies only to neutral nations. The French, who were 
at war and enemies, were several times not only plundered but killed within the 
government of Rigaud : but under Touissant, I knew of no instance of treachery, 
and all nations, classes, and conditions were equally protected. 

[10] For the truth of this observation, I appeal to every slave holder in the south, 
who has had an opportunity of Avitnessing the conduct of white laborers who come 
annually to seek work from the north ; whether the common plantation negroes 
do not conduct themselves much better and are of a more respectable moral 
character. 

[11] Our laws to regulate slaves are entirely founded on terror. It would 
be worth while to try the experiment of a small mixture of reward with the pun- 
ishment — such as allowing them the free use of Sunday as a market day and jubi- 
lee, which I have observed had a good effect in all foreign countries, also in Loui- 
siana. The laws of the southern states are exclusively constructed for the protec- 
tion of whites, and vexatious tyranny over the persons and properties of every 
colored person, whose oath can in no case be admitted as evidence against a 
white person. Policy and self-preservation require, to render the system benefi- 
cial, that slaves must be kept under wholesome and just restraint, which must 
always create some degree of resistance more or less to Patriarchal authority ; 
to counterbalance which the interest and co-operation of the free colored people 
is absolutely necessary when the white population is scanty. 

[12] A slave who saves my life by rescuing it from assassins at the risk of his 
own, or who saves the lives and properties of a whole community by informing 
against conspirators, must still remain aslave ! and what a dreadful feeling of ge- 
neral resentment must originate from such a source of injustice ! 

[ 13] What greater insult can be offered to common sense, than to arrogate the 
conditon of freedom to ourselves, who have not the power, under any circum- 
stances, of disposing of our property in the way we please. Is there any thing 
worthy of acceptance that can be offered to a slave but freedom ? 

If our low country is destroyed, and I lose my life and property by an insurrec- 
tion, what satisfaction is it to me to know that our back country militia will 
promptly and bravely revenge my death and destroy my negroes ? A state of 
war might soon produce such an event. 

A very common argument against free colored people's testimony being ad- 



19 

mitted as evidence in all cases is, that their moral character is not generally so 
respectable. The force of all testimony must be measured by its respectability ; 
therefore of unequal value. But that the moral character of free colored people 
generally, is inferior to that of the same condition of whites, I think cannot be 
proved. On the contrary, all unprejudiced people who have had an opportunity 
of knowing-, and have paid attention to the subject, will say that the very opposite 
is the case. Even if it were not so, what a reflection on our policy and justice, to 
outlaw them for complexion, which they cannot help, and deprive them of the 
means of acquiring moral improvement, by driving them to seek shelter among 
the slaves ! Few, I think, will deny that color and condition, if properly consi- 
dered, are two very separate qualities. But the fact is, that in almost every in- 
stance, our legislators, for want of due consideration, have mistaken the shadow 
for the substance, and confounded together two very different things ; thereby 
substantiating by law a dangerous and inconvenient antipathy, which can have 
no better foundation than prejudice. It is much to be regretted that those who 
enact laws to regulate slaves and free people of color, are often obliged to con- 
sult popularity rather than policy and their own good sense. If such alterations 
were practicable as would render slave property safe, without adopting the pre- 
sent system of terror, all such laws as tended to regulate plantation management, 
and interfere with the province of individual owners, could be repealed ; property 
'Tvould increase in value ; and the owner, no longer a kind of state prisoner, hover- 
ing over the movements of his negroes and overseers, could liberalise and im- 
prove his mind by travelling, and satisfy his thirst for knowledge wherever the 
advance of science offered the greatest field for its acquirement. 

The patrol laws are demoralising to the whites who compose the patrol ; ty- 
rannical and unjust to the negroes ; and unnecessarily supersede, in most cases, 
the owner's prerogative and rights over his property. 

Some of our state laws, in defiance of our national treaties, condemn to indis- 
criminate imprisonment in the common jail, every class of free colored persons, 
who may arrive within their limits, without reference to sex, cause, or condition ; 
and to be sold as slaves where they have not the means of paying the penalties 
annexed to the crime of arriving within the jurisdiction of the law. What must 
be the final consequence of such infatuation? an infatuation arraying itself in 
open and avowed hostility against twelve millionsof people, now composing the 
colored population of this quarter of the world. Hayti, alone, in the full career of 
wealth, freedom, and juvenile independence, with equal, if not superior, advan- 
tages of climate, soil, and situation, to any equal portion of tcn-itory in the world, 
is evidently destined by nature, at no very distant period, if not to command, 
at leastto share the commerce of the surrounding ocean; and, without being over 
peopled, comfortably to accomodate twelve millions of inhabitants. 

A war of color would, in our situation, of all wars be the most dangerous, 
therefore the least advisable, because we naturally and unavoidably (under our 
present policy) contain within us the materials of our own dissolution ; and nine 
tenths of all our present white friends would at least laugh at our absurd indis- 
cretion. 

All the late insurrections of slaves are to be traced to fanatical preachers (as, for 
instance, at Barbadoes and Demarara) and to white missionaries from E'lgland. 
Vesey, who instigated the Charleston plot, was an exhorting brotlier. GualJa 
Jack or Jack the Conjurer was a Conjurer in his own country, M'Choolay Tvloree- 
ma, where a dialect of the Angola tongue is spoken clear across Africa from sea 
to^ sea, a distance perhaps of three thousand miles : I purchased him a prisoner 
of Avar at Zinguebar. He had his conjuring implements with him in a bag which 
he brought on board the ship, and always retained them. 1 know two instances, 
to the southward, where gangs of negroes were prevented from deserting to the 
enemy by drivers, or influential negroes, whose integrity to their masters, and 
influence over the slaves, prevented it ; and what is still more remarkable, in both 
instances the influential negroes were Africans, and professors of the Mahomed- 
an religion. 



20 

A favorite maxim with some of our old southern politicians to increase the 
eecurity of slave property, has been to prohibit the increase of free people, or, 
by some means or other not yet divulged, to get rid of the evil altogether. If 
this could be done without making the remedy worse than the disease, it would 
be worth while to try it ; but as the iniquity has its origin in a great instinctive 
universal and immutable law of nature, legislation, by the aged, against 
such an alleged crime as propagation in youth, would be hopeless, and, like 
the story of the King of Arabia, who, after destroying his appetite by excess 
and gluttony, made a law, forbidding, under a severe penalty, that any of his 
subjects should be hungry. 

About twenty-five years ago, I settled a plantation on St. Johns River, in 
Florida, with about fifty new African negroes, many of whom I brought from 
the coast myself. They were mostly fine young men and women, and nearly 
in equal numbers. I never interfered with their connubial concerns, nor do- 
mestic affairs, but let them regulate these after their own manner. I taught 
them nothing but what was useful, and what I tliought would add to their 
physical and moral happiness. I encouraged as much as possible dancing, 
merriment, and dress, for v/hich Saturday afternoon and night, and Sunday 
morning, were dedicated ; and, after allowance, their time vv^as usually employ, 
ed in hoeing their corn, and getting a supply offish for the week. Both men 
and women were very industrious. Many of them made twenty bushels of 
corn to sell, and they vied with each other in dress and dancing, and as to 
whose wife was the finest and prettiest. They were perfectly honest and obe- 
dient, and appeared quite happy, having no fear but that of offending me ; and 
I hardly ever had occasion to apply other correction than shaming them. If 
I exceeded this, the punishment was quite light, for they hardly ever fiiiled in 
doing their work well. My object was to excite thsir ambition and attach- 
ment by kindness ; not to depress their spirits by fear and punishment. I 
never allowed them to visit, for fear of bad example, but encouraged the decent 
neighboring people to participate in their weekly festivity, for which they 
always provided an ample entertainment themselves, as they had an abundance 
of hogs, fowls, corn, and all kinds of vegetables and fruit. They had nothing 
to conceal from me, and I had no suspicion of any crime in them to guard 
against. Perfect confidence, friendship, and good understanding reigned be- 
tween us ; they increased rapidly. After a few years, tliis pleasant and profit- 
able state of harmony was interrujited by the revolution of 1812. A war 
party of Seminole Indians attacked the plantation in my absence ; caught, 
bound, and carried of, or killed, forty of them, whose reluctance in going with 
the invaders may be easily imagined from the following circumstance. The 
wife of a young man they had tied and were driving oft', that her husband, who 
was too strong to be handled, and who had his young child in his arms, might 
follow ; but this he absolutely refused, handing over tlie child to his wife, and 
saying that she knew best how to take care of it, but that his master should 
never say that he was a runaway negro ; upon which the Indian shot him, and 
he died next day. 

But my object in this long digression is to show the danger and hurtful ten- 
dency of superstition (by some called religion) among negroes whose ignoronce 
and want of rationality render them fit subjects to work upon. I afterwards 
purchased more new negroes. A man, calling himself a minister, got among 
them. It was now sinful to dance, work their corn or catch fish, on a Sunday ; 
or to eat cat fish, because they had no scales ; and if they did, they were to go 
to a place where they would be tormented with fire and brimstone to all eter- 
nity ! They became poor, ragged, hungry, and disconsolate : to steal from me 
was only to do justice — to take what belonged to them, because I kept them 
in unjust bondage ; that all pastime or pleasure in this iniquitous world was 
sinful ; that this was only a place of sorrow and repentance, and the sooner 
they were out of it the better ; that they would then go to a good country, 
where they vvould experience no want of any thing, and have no work nor 



21 

cruel taskmaster, for that God was merciful, and would pardon any Bin they 
committed ; only it was necessary to pray and ask forgiveness, and have prayer 
meetings, and contribute what they could to the church, &c. 

They accordingly formed private societies under church regulations, where 
all were brothers and sisters, and, under an oath of the most horrid penalty, 
never to tell or divulge any crime that would bring any brother or sister into 
trouble, but to lay all the blame on those who had not united with them, and 
who, of necessity, were obliged to join the fraternity, as soon as possible, in 
their own defence. They had private nightly meetings, once or twice a week, 
with abundance of preaching and praying, (for they all exhorted, men as well 
as women,) with an ample entertainment from my hogs, for it was no sin to 
steal for the church, the elders of which held it right to break open mj corn 
house, and provide amply for the meeting ; so that, finally, myself and the 
overseer became completely divested of all authority over the negroes. The 
latter even went so far as to consult the head men of the church whether or 
not, according to religion, my orders ought to be obeyed ! Severity had no 
effect ; it only made it worse ; and I really believe that, in several instances, 
sick children were allowed to die, because the parents thought conscientiously 
that it was meritorious to transfer their offspring from a miserable and wicked 
world to a happy country, v.'here they were in hopes of soon joining them! 

I relate the above circumstance not from any disrespect or prejudice against 
any particular religious profession ; but when it renders men unhappy and dis- 
contented v/ith tlieir condition in life, by destroying local attachment and love 
of country, it certainly should be rationally opposed : and I cannot help re- 
gretting that honest well meaning men, witlr so much ability to do good, and 
render mankind, especially the lower orders, happy and contented, should so 
misapply their talents as to subvert all natural and rational happiness, and en- 
deavor to render our species miserable. 

I was informed by a gentleman who lived near the Fishdam ford, on Broad 
River, South Carolina, that his employer had made an experiment on the 
management of negroes, of whom he was overseer, which answered extremely 
well, and offers to us a strong case in favor of exciting ambition by cultivating 
utility, local attachment, and moral improvement among slaves. He establish- 
ed four or five plantations, not far apart, and stocked each of them with a 
suitable proportion of hands, and work cattle, under a driver, who had the 
entire management of every thing under his (the overseer's) control. The 
overseer's duty merely extended to direct the driver on what land he was to 
raise provisions, and where cotton was to be planted ; with this understanding, 
that all the cotton raised, after it was cleaned and packed, belong to the own- 
er, and that all the hogs, corn, and provisions left after supplying the planta- 
tion, belonged to the negroes, v/ho might do with it as they pleased. 

The consequence of this arrangement was, that these plantations, regulated 
as before stated, turned out better crops than any other plantations of equal 
force in that neighborhood, and tlie owner had no farther trouble nor expense 
than furnishing the ordinary clothing and paying the overseer's wages, so that 
he could fairly be called free, seeing that he could realise his annual income 
wherever he chose to reside, without paying the customary homage to servitude 
of personal attendance on the operations of his slaves. 

Good policy requires that all laws tending to demoralise the people by hold- 
ing out a premium for perjury, should be abolished. Motives of policy, self- 
preservation, or justice, on which laws should be founded, form little or no 
part in such laws, as far as regards the free colored people of the South, (with 
some exceptions, such as Noi-th Carolina and Louisiana,) which are dictated 
in a spirit of intolerant prejudice and irresponsible autocracy, holding out to 
people they nickname free, no positive reward or premium whatever for being 
virtuous ; nothing to stimulate to industry or the acquisition of a good name, 
learning, or refinement ; no kind of protection either for person or property ; 
their destiny is already fixed by a mark of nature which has doomed to irrevo- 



23 

cable disgrace its degraded bearer, who is singled out as a victim for cruelt}', 
avarice, and revenge ; wliose punishment must bo corporeal, not even except- 
ing the most delicate female, whose industry and virtue alone would place her 
at the head of society in an}^ other country. The fruits of their industry must 
be offered up as a temptation to the avarice of some nobler color, which alone 
is privileged to hold and protect it. In short, liberty is merely nominal, with- 
out any constitutional protection. They may be sold for debt to pay partial, 
exhorbitant, and tyrannical taxes or fines, all of which are unconstitutional. 
Oppression is carried to its greatest extreme, when a mother of the most un- 
exceptionable moral character, leaving her family on account of ill health, and 
going out of her native state, is inexorably punished by perpetual banishment 
from her husband, children, friends, country, and all that is dear to her. 

Since these sevei'e enactments against color, several of the most respectable 
and enterprising young men have withdrawn from their native country and 
entered into the Haytian navy, and more will undoubtedly follow. I should 
think it were better to induce such to remain at home as friends, than oblige 
them to pass the Rubicon as enemies. 

It has been a favorite project of some of our least mathematical economists, 
to transport all the colored people of the U. States to Africa, without consider, 
ingthat the cost of the annual increase alone, if purchased, when added to the 
lowest possible freight, would exceed tha annual revenue of the United States. 
Besides, the difficulty and stern opposition that would encounter a prostration 
of all rights of property and liberty of person, they would have to be put on board 
in irons, under a strong guard, and be conveyed and landed with the same 
military formality, to oppose the resentment of the natives v.^hom they must 
displace, as well as the vengeance of the convicts themselves, both of whose 
lives must be sacrificed to famine or resentment at the despotic nod of cruelty 
and superstition. 

A great opportunity was lost of colonizing more rationally at the late evacu- 
ation of the Spanish part of Saint Domingo, where there would have been 
ample room for all the colored people of the U, States, within five days sail of 
Charleston. 

A patriarchal feeling of affection is due to every slave from his owner, who 
should consider the slave as a member of his family, whose happiness and pro- 
tection is identified with that of his own family, of which his slave constitutes 
a part, according to his scale of condition. This affection creates confidence 
which becomes reciprocal, and is attended with the most beneficial conse- 
quences to both. It certainly is humiliating to a proud master to reflect, that 
he depends on his slave even for bread to eat. But such is the fact. 

In most foreign colonies where spring is perpetual, Saturday is allowed the 
slaves as a compensation for their furnishing their own provision, which chief- 
ly consists of yams and plantains, produced almost spontaneously, or with 
little labor, and abundance of sweet, nutritious, and farinacious fruits of ex- 
quisite flavor, growing wild on the trees all the year round. This not only 
supplies them with delicious and wholesome food, but furnishes the means of 
traffic in the towns at night, or to carry to market on Sunday, which is every 
where celebrated as a day of freedom and rejoicing, similar to the practice at 
New-Orleans. 

Let any slave owner reflect and say, how much advantage the country would 
derive from preaching up industry, economy, and local attachment to the 
slaves ; and, by pointing out to them the happy coincidence and wise and bene- 
ficent dispensation of so much good which every where surrounds them, how 
much he would be deserving of universal respect and gratitude ; instead of 
preaching up terror and dismay, misery and discontent, as dispensations of the 
supreme author of ail good. All local attachment and love of virtue must be 
chilled or annihilated by such intemperate abuse of supreme wisdom. Any 
extreme is said naturally to produce its opposite. Will an excess of error ever 
produce truth 7 



! 



