THE 



EVILS OF SLAVERY 



CURE OF SLAVERY 



THE FIRST PROVED BY THE OPINIONS OP SOUTHERNERS 
THEMSELVES, 

THE LAST SHOWN BY HISTORICAL EVIDENCE. 



BYMRS.CHIIiD, 

Author of "An Appeal in favor of that Class of Americans called Africans," " Anti-Slavtr^ 

Catechism," "Frugal Housewife,^' "History of the Condition of Women," •• Th* 

Oasis," " Mother's Book," " Hobomok," " 3%« Coronal," !fc. 



Let US not betake ourselves to the common arts and stratagems of nations ; but 
fear God, and put away the evil which offends him : and trust not in man, but in 
the living God ; and it shall go well for England I— William Pemu 



NEWBURYPORT: 

PUBLISHED BY CHARLES WHIPPLE, 



1836. 



^>. 55'7<=7.50 «s. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/evilsofslaverycu1836chil 



SENTIMENTS EXPRESSED BY THE SOUTHERNERS 
THEMSELVES ON THE SUBJECT OF SLAVERY, 



" Now Naaman was a great man, and honorable ; he was also a mighty man in 
valor ; but he was a leper." — 2 Kiiigs, chap. v. 

Sentiments of Patrick Henry. 

" Is it not amazing, that at a time when the rites of 
humanity are defined with precision, in a country above 
all others fond of liberty, that in such an age, and in such 
a country, we find men, professing a religion the most 
humane and gentle, adopting a principle as repugnant to 
humanity, as it is inconsistent with the Bible, and de- 
structive to liberty 1 Believe me, I shall honor the Quakers 
for their noble efforts to abolish slavery. Every thinking, 
honest man, rejects it in speculation ; yet how ^q\\ in 
practice, from conscientious motives. Would any man 
believe that 1 am master of slaves of my own purchase 1 
I am drawn along by the general inconvenience of living 
without them. I will not, I cannot justify it. However 
culpable my conduct, I will so far pay my devoir to virtue, 
as to own the excellence and rectitude of her precepts, 
and to lament my own want of conformity to them." — 
Letter of Patrick Henry, of Virginia, to Robert Pleas- 
ants, of the Society of Friends, 



Sentiments of Jefferson. 

" The whole commerce between master and slave is a 
perpetual exercise of the most boisterous passions, the 
most unremitting despotism on one part, and degrading 



submission on the other. Our children see this and learn 
to imitate it. The parent storms, the child looks on, 
catches the lineaments of wrath, puts on the same airs in 
the circle of smaller slaves, gives loose to the worst of 
passions, and thus nursed, educated, and exercised in 
tyranny, cannot but be stamped by it with odious pecu- 
liarities. With what execration should the statesman be 
loaded, who, permitting one half of the citizens to trample 
on the rights of the other, transforms those into despots, 
and those into enemies ; destroys the morals of one part, 
and the amo?' jpati^icB of the other. 

" And can the liberties of the nation be thought secure, 
when we have refused the only firm basis, a conviction in 
the minds of the people that these liberties are the gift of 
God 1 That they are not to be violated but with his 
wrath ? Indeed, I tremble for my country, when I recol- 
lect that God is just ; that his justice cannot sleep forever; 
that, considering numbers, nature and natural means only, 
a revolution in the wheel of fortune, an exchange of situa- 
tion is among possible events; that it may become proba- 
ble by a supernatural interftMence. The Almighty has 
no attribute which can take side with us in such a con- 
test." — Jefer son's Notes on Virginia, published 1782. 



In a letter, dated Monticello, 1814, Mr. Jefferson 
writes thus in his old ase. 



*S' 



*' Dear Sir — Your ftivor of July 31, was duly received, 
and read with pleasure. The sentiments breathed through 
the whole, do honor both to the head and heart of the 
writer. Mine on the subject of the slavery of the negroes 
have long since been in the possession of the public; and 
time has only served to give them stronger root. Yet the 
hour of emancipation is advancing in the march of time. 
It will come; and whether brought on by the generous 
energy of our own minds, or by the bloody process of St, 
Domingo, excited and conducted by the power of our 
present enemy,* if once stationed permanently within our 

* It will be recollected that we were then engaged in war. 



country, and offering an asylum and alms to the oppressed, 
is a leaf of our history not yet turned over. 

"I am sensible of the partialities with which you have 
looked towards me, as the person who should undertake 
this salutary but arduous work. But this, my dear sir, 
is like bidding old Priam buckle on the armor of Hector, 
' trementibus cbvo humeri et inutile ferrum cingiJ No, 
I have overlived the generation with which mutual labors 
begat mutual confidence and influence. This enterprise 
is for the young ; for those who can follow it up, and 
bear it through to its consummation. It shall have my 
prayers, and these are the only w^eapons of an old man." 



Sentiments of Governor Randolph. 

^' The deplorable error of our ancestors in copying a 
civil institution from savage Africa, has affixed upon their 
posterity a depressing burden, which nothing but the ex- 
traordinary benefits conferred by our happy climate, could 
have enabled us to support. We have been far outstrip- 
ped by Slates, to whom nature has been far less bountiful. 
It is painful to consider what might have been, under 
other circumstances, the amount of general wealth in 
Virginia, or the whole sum of comfortable subsistence and 
happiness possessed by all her inhabitants." — Governor 
Randolph's Address to the Legislature of Virginia, in 
1820. 



Sentiments of John Randolph. 

" Virginia is so impoverished by the system of slavery, 
that the tables will sooner or later be turned, and the 
slaves will advertise for runaway masters." — John Ran- 
dolph, of Roanoke 
1 * 



6 

Sentiments of Mr. Read. 

" Slavery is an unnatural state, a dark cloud, which 
obscures half the lustre of our free institutions. I would 
hail that day as the most glorious in its dawning, which 
would behold, with safety to themselves and our citizens, 
the black population of the United States placed upon 
the high eminence of equal rights." — 3Ir. Read, of Geor- 
gia, in the debate on the Missouri question. 



Sentiments of Governor Giles. 

Free blacks, when convicted of certain crimes, are sold 
as slaves. Governor Giles, in his Address to the Legis- 
lature of Virginia, in 1827, alluding to this custom, says : 
"Slavery must be admitted to be a punishment of the 
highest order; and according to every just rule for the 
apportionment of punishment to crimes, it would seem 
that it ought to be applied only to crimes of the highest 
order. It seems but an act of justice to this unfortunate, 
degraded class of persons, to state that the number of 
convicts among free colored persons, compared with the 
white population, is extremely small ; and would serve to 
show, that even this description of our population is less 
demoralized than is generally supposed." 



Sentiments of Amos Weaver. 

" What ! are thousands of our fellow-creatures within 
our State, destitute of every real protection afforded them 
by law, either in their persons or property — without any 
law to guard their marriage rights, or without the law's 
having any knowledge of marriage among them — (for 
such is the fact with regard to the whole slave population 
among us) — many of them under the control of cruel and 
relentless masters, from whom they receive much inhu- 
man abuse — and yet are we told that all this needs no 
legislative interference? Monstrous, indeed, is the doc- 
trine ! But on this subject, we appeal to the virtue and 



good sense of our countrymen." — Oration hy Amos 
Weaver^ of Guilford County ^ North Carolina^ delivered 
in 1829. 



Sentiments of B. Swain. 

*' Is it nothing to us, that seventeen hundred thousand 
of the people of our country, are doomed illegally to the 
most abject and vile slavery that was ever tolerated on the 
face of the earth 1 Are Carolinians deaf to the piercing 
cries of humanity ? Are they insensible to the demands 
of justice 1 Let any man of spirit and feeling, for a mo- 
ment cast his thoughts over the land of slavery — think of 
the nakedness of some, the hungry yearnings of others, 
the flowing tears and heaving sighs of parting relations, 
the wailings of lamentation and wo, the bloody cut of the 
keen lash, and the frightful scream that rends the very 
skies, — and all this to gratify ambition, lust, pride, avarice, 
vanity, and other depraved feelings of the human heart. 
Too long has our country been unfortunately lulled to 
sleep, feeding on the golden dreams of superficial politi-^ 
cians, fanciful poets, and anniversary orations. The 
worst is not generally known. Were all the miseries, the 
horrors of slavery, to burst at once into view, a peal of 
sevenfold thunder could scarce strike greater alarm. 
We cannot yet believe the condition of our country so 
desperate, as to forbid the judicious application of proper 
remedies." — Address of B. Swain, of North Carolina^ 
in 1830. 



Sentiments of Henry Clay. 

*' In our attempt to adopt gradual emancipation in 
Kentucky, we were overpowered by numbers, and sub^ 
mitted to the decision of the majority, with the grace 
which the minority in a republic should ever yield to such 
a decision. But I have never ceased, and never shall 
cease, to regret a decision, the effects of which have been 



8 

to place us in the rear of our neighbors, who are exempt 
from slavery, in the state of agriculture, the progress of 
manufactures, the advance of improvement, and the gen- 
eral prosperity of society." — Henry Clay, of Kentucky. 



Sentiments of Mr. Faulkner. 

** Slavery, it is admitted, is an evil. It is an institution 
which presses heavily against the best interests of the 
State, It banishes free white labor — it exterminates the 
mechanic — the artisan — the manufacturer. It converts 
the energy of a community into indolence — its power into 
imbecility — its efficiency into weakness. Being thus in- 
jurious, have we not a right to demand its extermination? 
Shall society suffer, that the slave-holder may continue to 
gather his vigintial crop of human flesh ? What is his 
mere pecuniary claim, compared with the great interests 
of the common weal? Must the country languish and 
die that the slave-holder may flourish ? Shall all interests 
be subservient to one? Have nc' the middle classes their 
rights — rights incompatible with the existence of slavery ? 
If there be one who concurs with the gentleman from 
Brunswick, in considering the character of this institution 
harmless, let me request him to compare the condition of 
the slave-holding portion of this commonwealth— barren, 
desolate, and seared as it were by the avenging hand of 
Heaven — with the description which we have of this same 
country from those who first broke its virgin soil. To 
what is this change ascribable ? Alone to the withering 
and blasting efi'ects of slavery. To that vice, in the or- 
ganization of society, by which one half its inhabitants are 
arrayed in interest and feeling against the other half — to 
that condition of things, in which half a million of your 
population can feel no sympathy with society, in the pros- 
])erity of which they are forbidden to participate, and no 
attachment to a government at whose hands they receive 
nothing but injustice." — Mr. Faulkner'' s Speech in the 
Legislature of Virginia, 1832. 



9 

Sentiments of Mr. JVirt. 

Mi\ Wirt, of Virginia, said that " slavery was contrary 
to the laws of nature and of nations ; and that the law of 
South Carolina concerning seizing colored seamen was 
unconstitutional." In his life of Patrick Henry, speaking 
of the different classes in Virginia, he says : " last and 
lowest, a feculum of beings called overseers—the most 
abject, degraded, unprincipled race — always whip in hand 
to the dons who employ them, and furnishing materials 
for their pride, insolence, and love of dominion." 



Sentiments of Mr. Brodnax. 

*' That slavery in^Virginia is an evil, and a transcendent 
evil, it would be more than idle for any human being to 
doubt or deny. It is a mildew, which has blighted every 
region it has touched, from the creation of the world. 
Illustrations from the history of other countries and other 
times might be instructive ; but we have evidence nearer 
at hand, in the short histories of the different States of 
this great confederacy, which are impressive in their ad- 
monitions, and conclusive in their character.' — Speech 
of Mr. Brodnax^ in the Virginia Legislature, 1832. 



Sentiments of Mr. Summers. 

" Sir, the evils of this system cannot be enumerated. 
It were unnecessary to attempt it. They glare upon us 
at every step. When the owner looks to his wasted estate, 
he knows and feels them. When the statesman examines 
the condition of his country, and finds her moral influence 
gone, her physical strength diminished, her political 
power waning, he sees and must confess them. Will 
gentlemen inform us when this subject will become less 
delicate — when it will be attended with fewer difficulties 
than at present — and at what period we shall be better 
enabled to meet them ? Shall we be more adequate to 
the end proposed, after the resources of the State have 



10 

been yet longer paralyzed by the withering, desolating in- 
fluence of our present system 2 Sir, every year's delay 
but augments the difficulties of this great business, and 
weakens our ability to compass it. Like silly children, 
we endeavor to postpone the work, which we know must 
be performed." — Speech of Mr. Summers, in the Legisla- 
ture of Virginia J 1832. 



Sentiments of Thomas Clay. 

" The present economy of the slave system is to get all 
you can from the slave, and give in return as little as will 
barely support him in a working condition. Even where 
there is not a direct intention to abridge his comforts, 
they are but little consulted ; and seeing his master 
wholly engrossed by his own advantage, the slave nat- 
urally pursues the same selfish course, and when not re- 
strained by higher principle, becomes deceitful and thiev- 
ish. The master takes no pains to conceal that he 
takes it for granted the negro will steal and lie ; and 
when the slave is tempted to either, he feels that he has 
no character to lose." — Thomas Clafs Address before 
the Presbytery of Georgia. 



Sentiments of Z. Kingsley. 

This writer informs his readers that he settled on a 
plantation in Florida, ivith about fifty negroes, many of 
uihom he brought from the coast of Africa himself He 
is one who ivants to regulate the evil — not cd)olish it. 

*' As far as regards the free colored people of the south, 
the laws are dictated in a spirit of intolerant prejudice, 
and irresponsible autocracy, holding out to people they 
nickname free, no reward or premium whatever for being 
virtuous; nothing to stimulate to industry, or the acqui- 
sition of a good name, learning, or refinement ; no kind 
of protection either for person or property. Even their 
punishments must be corporeal — not excepting the most del- 



11 



icate female, whom industry and virtue alone would place 
at the head of society in any other country. Liberty is 
merely nominal, without any constitutional protection. 
They may be sold to pay partial, exorbitant, and tyranni- 
cal taxes, or fines, all which are unconstitutional. Op- 
pression is carried to its greatest extreme, when a mother, 
of most unexceptionable moral character, going out of her 
native State on account of ill health, is inexorably pun- 
ished by perpetual banishment from husband, children, 
friends, country, and all that is dear to her.* As for 
our laws to regulate slaves, they are all founded upon 
terror." 



Sentiments of President Monroe. 

" We have found that this evil has preyed upon the 
very vitals of the Union ; and has been prejudicial to all 
the States in which it has existed." — James Monroe before 
the Virginia Convention. 



Sentiments af WasJiington. 

General IVasJiington, in a letter to Sir John Sinclair , 
speaks of the prices of land in Virginia, and particularly 
in the neighborhood of Mount Vernon. The land there 
is described as exhausted and miserable — plantations not 
worth more than four or five dollars an acre, including 
buildings. He then alludes to the prices of land in Penn- 
sylvania and the free States, which averaged more than 
twice as much ; I think he stated it at sixteen dollars per 
acre. He assigns as reasons for this mighty difference, 
first, that foreign emigrants are more inclined to settle in 
the free States. The second reason X transcribe in his 
own words : 

* Free colored people if they go out of the State, for any reason 
whatsoever, are never allowed to return, lest they should bring back 
opinions that would make the slaves uneasy. 



12 

" Because there are in Pennsylvania, laws for the grad- 
ual abolition of slavery^ which neither Maryland nor 
Virginia have at present ; but which nothing is more 
certain than that they must have, and at a period not 
remote." 



Sentiments of Mr. Cusiis, of Virginia. 

*' Sir, — The prosperity and aggrandizement of a State, 
is to be seen in its increase of inhabitants, and consequent 
progress in industry and wealth. Of the vast tide of emi- 
gration, which now rushes like a cataract to the West, 
not even a trickling rill wends its way to the ancient do- 
minion. Of the multitude of foreigners, who daily seek 
an asylum and home in the empire of liberty, how many 
turn their steps to the region of the slave ? None. No, 
not one. There is a malaria in the atmosphere of those 
regions, which the new comer shuns, as being deleterious 
to his views and habits. See the wide spreading ruin 
which the avarice of our ancestral government* has pro- 
duced in the south, as witnessed in a sparse population of 
freemen, deserted habitations, and fields without culture. 

" Strange to tell, even the wolf, which, driven back 
long since by the approach of man, now returns, after the 
lapse of an hundred years, to howl over the desolations of 
slavery." 

* Those who seek to get rid of the shame of slavery, by throwing 
the blame on our English ancestors, ought to remember that when 
this government was formed, the southern States insisted that no 
restriction should be put on the importation of slaves for twenty 
years to come ! 



HISTORICAL EVIDENCE CONCERNING THE EF- 
FECTS OF IMMEDIATE EMANCIPATION. 



"Elislia said unto Naaman, Go and wash in Jordan seven times, and thy flesh 
shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. 

" But Naaman was wroth, and he turned and went away in a rage. 

"And his servants said, My father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great 
thing, wouldst thou not have done it ? How much rather then, when he saith to 
thee, wash and be clean. 

"Then he went down, and dipped himself seven times in Jordan, according to 
the saying of the man of God: and his flesh came again like unto the flesh of a 
little child, and he was clean." — 2 Kings, chap. v. 

When the question of immediate abolition was first 
started in England, the friends of slavery vociferated 
nothing more loudly, than the danger of universal insur- 
rection and bloodshed ; and nothing took stronger hold 
of the sympathies and conscientious fears of the people, 
than these repeated assertions. This is precisely the 
state of things in our own country, at the present time. 
We ail know that it is not according to human nature for 
men to turn upon their benefactors, and do violence, at 
the very moment they receive what they have long desired ; 
but we are so repeatedly told the slaves tvill murder their 
masters, if they give them freedom, that we can hardly 
help believing that, in this peculiar case, the laws of 
human nature iimst be reversed. Let us try to divest our- 
selves of the fierce excitement now abroad in the commu- 
nity, and calmly inquire what is the testimony of history 
on this important subject. 

In June, 1793, a civil war occurred between the aris- 
tocrats and republicans of St. Domingo ; and the planters 
called in the aid of Great Britain. The opposing party 
proclaimed freedom to all slaves, and armed them against 
the British. It is generally supposed that the abolition of 
2 



14 

slavery in St. Domingo was in consequence of insurrections 
among the slaves ; but this is not true. It was entirely 
a measure of 'political expediency. And what were the 
consequences of this sudden and universal emancipation 1 
Whoever will take the pains to search the histories of that 
island, will find the whole colored population remained 
faithful to the republican party which had given them 
freedom. The British were defeated, and obliged to 
evacuate the island. The sea being at that time full of 
British cruisers, the French had no time to attend to St. 
Domingo, and the colonists were left to govern themselves. 
And what was the conduct of the emancipated slaves, 
under these circumstances? About 600,000 slaves had 
instantaneously ceased to be properly, and were invested 
with the rights of men ; yet there was a decrease of crime, 
and every thing went on quietly and prosperously. Col. 
Malenfant, who resided on the island, says, in his his- 
torical memoir: '* After this public act of emancipation, 
the negroes remained quiet both in the south and west, 
and they continued to work upon all the plantations. 
Even upon those estates which had been abandoned by 
owners and managers, the negroes continued their labor 
where there were any agents to guide; and where no 
white men were left to direct them, they betook them- 
selves to planting provisions. The colony was flourishing. 
The whites lived happy and in peace upon their estates, 
and the negroes continued to work for them." 

General Lacroix, in his memoirs, speaking of the same 
period, says: "The colony marched as by enchantment 
towards its ancient splendor ; cultivation prospered ; every 
day produced perceptible proofs of its progress." 

This prosperous state of things lasted about eight years ; 
and would probably have continued to this day, had not 
Buonaparte, at the instigation of the old aristocratic French 
planters, sent an army to deprive the blacks of the free- 
dom which they had used so well. It was the attempts 
to restore slavery, that produced all the bloody horrors of 
St. Domingo. Emancipation produced the must blessed 
effects. 

In June, 1794, Victor Hugo, a French republican gen- 
eral, retook the island of Gtiadaloupe from the British, 
and immediately proclaimed freedom to all the slaves. 



15 

They were 85,000 in number, and the whites only 13,000. 
No disasters ivhatever occurred in consequence of this step. 
Seven years after, the supreme council of Guadaloupe, 
in an official document, alluding to the tranquillity that 
reigned throughout the island, observed : " We shall have 
the satisfaction of giving an example which will prove that 
all classes of people may live in perfect harmony with 
each other, under an administration which secures justice 
to all classes." In 1802, Buonaparte again reduced this 
island to slavery, at the cost of about 20,000 negro lives. 

On the 10th of October, 1811, the congress of Chili 
decreed that every child born after that day should be 
free. 

In 1821, the congress of Colombia emancipated all 
slaves who had borne arms in favor of the republic ; and 
provided for the emancipation in eighteen years of the 
whole slave population, amounting to 900,000. 

In September, 1829, the government of Mexico granted 
immediate and unqualified freedom to every slave. In all 
these cases, not one instance of insurrection or bloodshed 
has ever been heard of as the result of emancipation. 

In July, 1823, 30,000 Hottentots in Cape Colony, were 
emancipated from their long and cruel bondage, and ad- 
mitted by law to all the rights and privileges of the white 
colonists. Outrages were predicted, as the inevitable 
consequence of freeing human creatures so completely 
brutalized as the poor Hottentots ; but all went on peace- 
ably ; and as a gentleman facetiously remarked, *' Hot- 
tentots as they were, they worked better for Mr. Cash, 
than they had ever done for Mr. Lash." 

In the South African Commercial Advertiser of Feb- 
ruary, 1831, it is stated : '' Three thousand prize negroes 
have received their freedom ; four hundred in one day ; 
but not the least difficulty or disaster occurred. Servants 
found masters — masters hired servants — all gained homes, 
and at night scarcely an idler was to be seen, — To state 
that sudden emancipation would create disorder and dis- 
tress to those you mean to serve, is not reason, but the plea 
of all men adverse to abolition." 

On the 1st of August, 1834, the government of Great 
Britain emancipated the slaves in all her colonies, of which 
she had twerity ; seventeen in the West Indies, and three 



16 

in the East Indies. The measure was not carried in a 
manner completely satisfactory to the English abolitionists. 
Historical evidence, and their own knowledge of human 
nature, led them to the conclusion that immediate and 
unqualified emancipation was the safest for the master, as 
well as the most just towards the slave. But the West India 
planters talked so loudly of the dangers of such a step, 
and of the necessity of time to fit the slaves for freedom, 
that the government resolved to conciliate them by a sort 
of compromise. The slaves were to continue to work six 
years longer without wages, under the name of appren- 
tices ; but during this period, they could be punished only 
by the express orders of magistrates. 

The legislatures of the several colonies had a right to 
dispense with the system of apprenticeship; but Antigua 
and Bermuda were the only ones that adopted immediate 
and unconditional emancipation. 

Public proclamation of freedom was made on the first 
of August, and was every where received in joy and peace. 
Mr. Cobbett, a missionary stationed at Montego Bay, Ja- 
maica, writes thus : " The first of August was a memo- 
rable day ! Our preaching place was crowded at an early 
hour. At the close of the services, I read the address of 
his excellency the governor to the negro population, made 
several remarks in reference to the change of their condi- 
tion, and exhorted them to be obedient to their masters 
and to the powers that be. There was in every counte- 
nance an expression of satisfaction, and of gratitude to 
God and their benefactors. The conduct of the negroes 
during this eventful period has been such as will raise 
them, I should think, in the eyes of all their friends." 

Mr. Wedlock, of the same place, writes thus on the 
13th of August : " The first day of August, a day to 
which the attention of the wise, the good, and the phi- 
lanthropic, of other countries besides our own, was direct- 
ed, has arrived and passed by in the most peaceful and har- 
monious manner. Such congregations, such attention, 
such joys and grateful feelings as are depicted in every 
countenance, I never beheld ! — Up to this time, peace 
and harmony prevail." 

The marquis of Sligo, governor of Jamaica, in his 
speech to the assembly, after five months' trial of eman* 



17 

cipation, declares : " Not the slightest idea of any inter- 
ruption of tranquillity exists in any quarter ; an^ those 
preparations which I have felt it my duty to make, might, 
without the slightest danger, have been dispensed with." 
In a recent address to the assembly, he states that the 
crops this year, (1835,) will fail short only about one six- 
teenth ; and that this slight difference may be accounted 
for by the unfavorableness of the season. 

The enemies of abolition predicted that the crops in 
Jamaica, would perish for want of being gathered ; be- 
cause the negroes could not possibly be induced to work 
an hour longer than the law or the whip compelled them. 
But as soon as the planters offered them wages for working 
extra hours, more work was offered than the planters were 
willing to pay for. Even the low price of a penny an 
hour, operated like magic upon them, and inspired them 
to diligence ! 

The numerical superiority of the negroes in the West 
Indies is great. In Jamaica there were 331,000 slaves, 
and only 37,000 whites. By the clumsy apprenticeship 
system, the old stimulus of the whip was taken away, 
while the new and better stimulus of wages was not ap- 
plied. The negroes were aware that if they worked well 
they should not be paid for it, and that if they worked ill 
they could not be flogged, as they had formerly been. Yet 
even under these disadvantageous circumstances, no diffi- 
culties occurred except in three of the islands; and even 
there the difficulties were slight and temporary. Let us 
inquire candidly how these troubles originated. The act 
of parliament provided, that the apprentice should work 
for his master forty and a half hours per week, and have 
the remainder of the time for his own benefit ; but it did 
not provide that while they were apprentices (and of 
course worked without wages) they should enjoy all the 
privileges to which they had been accustomed while 
slaves. The planters availed themselves of this circum- 
stance to put obstructions in the way of abolition ; with 
the hope likewise of coercinof the apprentices to form indi- 
vidual contracts to work ffii/ hours in the week, instead 
o^ forty and a half. While the people had been slaves, 
they had always been allowed cooks io prepare their meals; 
nurses to take care of the little children ; and a person to 



IS 

bring water to the gang, during the hot hours; but when 
they became apprentices, these privileges were taken 
away. Each slave was obliged to quit his or her work to 
go to his own cabin (sometimes a great distance) to cook 
their meals, instead of having them served in the field ; 
water was not allowed them ; the aged and infirm, instead 
of being employed as formerly, to superintend the children 
in the shade, were driven to labor in the hot sun, and 
mothers were obliged to toil at the hoe with their infants 
strapped at their backs. In addition to this, the planters 
obtained from the governor a new proclamation, re- 
quiring the apprentices to labor extra hours for their 
masters, when they should deem it necessary in the culti- 
vation, gathering, or manufacture of the crop, provided 
they repaid them an equal time *• at a convenient season 
of the year." This was like taking from a New-England 
farmer the month of July to be repaid in January. Under 
these petty vexations, and unjust exactions, some of the 
apprentices stopt work in three of the colonies, out of 
seventeen. But even in these three, their resistance was 
merely passive. The worst enemies op abolition 
have not yet been able to show that a single drop 
of blood has been shed, or a single plantation 
pirep, in consfquence of emajmcipation, in all. the 
British West Indies ! 

In Jamaica they refused to work upon the terms which 
their masters endeavored to impose. A very small mili- 
tary force was sent into one parish, and but on one occa- 
sion. Not a drop of blood was shed on either side. 

In Demarara they refused to work on the prescribed 
terms, and marched about with a flagstaff, as '' the ten 
hour men " have done in many of our cities. But the 
worst thing they did was to strike a constable with their 
fists. 

In St. Christopher's the resistance was likewise entirely 
passive. In two weeks the whole trouble was at an end ; 
and it was ascertained that, out of twenty thousand ap- 
prentices, only thirty were absent from work ; and some 
of these were supposed to be dead in the woods. 

One apprentice, executed in Demarara for insubordina- 
tion, is the only life that has yet been lost in this great 
experiment ! and a few fi^ty cuffs with a constable, on 



19 

one single occasion, has been the only violence offered to 
persons or property, by eight hundred thousand emanci- 
pated slaves. 

Antigua and Bermuda did not try the apprenticeship 
system ; but at once gave the slaves the stimulus of wages. 
In those islands not the slightest difficulties have occurred. 
The journals of Antigua say : *' The great doubt is solv- 
ed ; and the highest hopes of the negroes' friends are 
fulfilled. Thirty thousand men have passed from slavery 
into freedom, not only without the slightest irregularity, 
but with the solemn and decorous tranquillity of a Sab- 
bath ! " 

In Antigua there are 2,000 whites, 30,000 slaves and 
4,500 free blacks. 

Antigua and St. Christopher are within gunshot of each 
other ; both are sugar growing colonies ; and the propor- 
tion of blacks is less in St. Christopher than it is in Anti- 
gua : yet the former island has had some difficulty with the 
gradual system, while the quiet of the latter has not been 
disturbed for one hour by immediate emancipation. Do 
not these facts speak volumes? 

There are, in the West Indies, many men, (planters, 
overseers, drivers, and book-keepers,) who, from pride, 
licentiousness, and other motives, do not like a change 
which takes away from them uncontrolled power over 
men and women. These individuals try to create diffi- 
culties, and exaggerate the report of them. It is much to 
be regretted that the American press has hitherto prefer- 
red their distorted stories, unsubstantiated by a particle of 
proof, to the well-authenticated evidence of magistrates 
and missionaries resident on the islands. 

Why are the friends of sh'ivery so desirous to make it 
appear that the British experiment does not work well ? 
It is because they are conscious that if it does work well, 
America has no excuse left to screen her from the strong 
disapprobation of the civilized world. 



CHARLES WHIPPLE, 

HAS FOR SALE 

Mrs. Child's Anti-Slavery Catechism. Also, her " Oasis," 
" Authentic Anecdotes of American Slavery," and " Appeal 
in Favor of that Class of Americans, called Africans." 

The Despotism of Freedom, a Speech by D. L. Child, Esq. 

C. Stuart's West India Question, showing the safety of 
immediate emancipation. 

President Edwards's Sermon on the Injustice and Impolicy 
of the Slave Trade, and the Slavery of the Africans ; fourth 
edition. 

Rev. John Rankin's Letters to a Slave-holding Brother, on 
American Slavery. 

Hon. William Jay's Inquiry into the Tendency of the Amer- 
ican Colonization and the Anti-Slavery Societies. 

Rev. La Roy Sunderland's Testimony of God against 
Slavery, with Notes. 

Rev. David Root's Fast Day Sermon, on Slavery. 

Memoir and Poems of Phillis Wheatley, a native of Africa, 
and a Slave. 

The Slave's Friend, a series of neat and interesting books 
for children, with engravings ; price one cent. 

Lectures on Slavery and its Remedy, by Rev. A. A. Phelps. 

Rev. G. Bourne's Picture of Slavery in America, with en- 
gravings. 

Letters of Rev. Dr. S. H. Cox, and H. B. Stanton, with a 
Speech of J. A. Thome, before the American Anti-Slavery 
Society. 

E. Wright's Sin of Slavery and its Remedy. 

The Negro's Friend, a series of English Tracts, with en- 
gravings. 

Anti-Slavery Hymns, Cards and Handbills, in great variety. 

Birney's Letters on Colonization. 



0[/^ Subscriptions received as above, for the New York 
Evangelist, Emancipator, Human Rights, Concord Herald of 
Freedom, Boston Liberator, and New England Spectator, 
Ami- Slavery Quarterly Magazine. 



