res. 7SH.S *> 



OO. 5 



EXTINCTION 



AMERICAN COLONIZATION SOCIETY 



THE FIRST STEP 



ABOLITION OF AMERICAN SLAVERY. 




By JAMES CROPPER. 



LONDON : 

PRINTED BY S. BAGSTER, JUN., 14, BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE. 



1833. 




fe5. 757V- 5 »/A ,0.5- 



PUBLICATIONS ON THE SUBJECT OF AMERICAN 
COLONIZATION. 



Prejudice Vincible. — Egerton, Smith, and Co., Liverpool. 
Baptist Magazine, for July. 
Imperial Magazine, for July. 
Eclectic Review, for February. 
Liberia Unmasked. — Oliphant, Edinburgh. 
Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 102. ) 
Anti-Slavery Record, No. 7. S X 8 > Aldermanbury. 

Facts by Clericus. — Egerton, Smith, and Co., Liverpool. 
Liberia — a Lecture by C. Stuart. — Glasgow. 
The Liberian Crusade. — J. and J, Jackson, Market-Place, 
Louth. 



THE EXTINCTION, &c. 



Whilst the abolition of colonial slavery occupied the at- 
tention of the British public, they would naturally turn their 
minds to its ultimate extinction in the United States of 
America, — a country connected with us by language and com- 
mon origin. The final extinction of slavery, and the civiliza- 
tion of Africa, have been represented by the agent of the 
American Colonization Society as the great objects of that 
institution, which has induced many friends of the abolition 
cause to give it their support. But a more accurate investi- 
gation of its origin, its own declarations, and the effects pro- 
duced, have convinced many who were once its friends, that 
its obj ects have been directly contrary to the professions of 
its agent — that it was not formed with any view to the civi- 
lization of Africa; its single object from first to last having 
been declared to be " the colonizing of the free people of 
colour with their consent, in Africa, oit such other place 
as Congress may deem most expedient" — that instead of 
having done any thing to soften or ameliorate the barbarous 
laws of the slave states, made against their instruction and 
improvement, this Society has powerfully supported that un- 
christian prejudice against the coloured people, in which these 
laws had their foundation — that instead of having any ten- 
dency to abolish slavery, its evident tendency and its effects 
have been to perpetuate that abomination ; and, therefore, 
that its extinction, and not its support, is the first step to the 
abolition of American slavery. 

The intentions of its founders, and the effects produced on 
public feeling by its operations, have already been successfully 
exposed in many publications in this country (a list of which 
is given in our second page), which establish all that has been 
said against it. But some have supposed that its objects 
were now become more comprehensive and benevolent than 
those of its founders ; and that though they only sought to 
send out the free blacks to " Africa, or such other place as 
Congress might deem most expedient," yet now its object 
had become the civilization of Africa, and the extinction of 

b2 



slavery in the United States. Such an idea seems to have 
baen entertained by its slave-holding friends in the United 
States ; but their apprehensions must have been completely 
allayed by the speeches and resolutions in their last, the 16th 
Report, from which the following extracts are given, and 
which it is hoped will undeceive the British public on this 
point : — 

" We have a growing- population of free people of colour, distinct 
and separated from us by their character and condition ; nominally 
free, it is true, but virtually slaves — a proscribed and degraded 
caste, whose liberty (if liberty it may be called) is but negative, 
giving them but little, and exacting from them every thing. And 
it is these people alone this Society proposes to colonize, and thus 
relieve our country from an acknowledged evil, by cutting off a 
morbid excrescence from the body politic, which has tended only 
to impair and corrupt our social system." — Speech of Z. C. Lee. 
See 16th Report of Colonization Society, p. 10. 

"It is indispensable, however, that the object of this Society 
should continue to be what it has been professed to be, the coloni- 
zation of the free people of colour only." — p. 1 1 . 

" Sir, — I reside in a slave state, alive to all the jealousies which 
a consideration of this kind must excite. No other state would be 
more sensitive at the slightest effort to withdraw, from its own 
peculiar cognizance, the exclusive and entire control of all questions 
touching this species of property ; none will go farther to sustain 
her right to such exclusive jurisdiction ; and no citizen of the state 
would vindicate that claim with more untiring zeal and firmness, 
than the individual now before you. But, Sir, the apprehension 
is groundless — your constitution avows, and your whole history 
proves, that no such purpose exists. This Society interferes with 
the rights and interests of no one. Who has ever claimed for the 
Society, or for the national government operating through its 
agency, the right to interfere with or control state legislation on 
the subject of slavery ? There may be individuals in this Society, 
as there are out of it, who intemperately urge the subject of eman- 
cipation, and would desire to see it advance quite beyond the limits 
of prudence and safety. Such enthusiasts may be willing to make 
any institution, society, or government auxiliary to their wild and 
mischievous projects ; but the Colonization Society is not responsi- 
ble for these intemperate fanatics : nor does it countenance or 
encourage their schemes : it interferes in no way with the rights or 
the interests of the owners of slaves." — Extracts from the Speech 
of Mr. Chalmers, 16th Report, p. 12. 

" In many portions of the southern country, it is alleged, that 
the ultimate object of the Society is to abolish the tenure by 
which persons of colour are held to labour. This allegation, Sir, 
is unfounded. It is not true, that the Society, either at its for- 
mation, or at any stage of its progress since, has ever been ac- 
tuated by such a design. I happened to be present when the first 



preliminary meeting of this Society was held in this city. I heard 
the chairman who then presided (now a distinguished member from 
Kentucky, in the senate of the United States) declare the several 
objects for which the Society was to be formed. I heard, at the 
same time, a distinguished member of the House of Representatives 
from Virginia repeat the declaration, and reiterate the objects with 
great minuteness. In all this, not a word was said about abrogat- 
ing the tenure of property in persons of colour. So far from it, 
it was distinctly stated, on the contrary, that with questions of this 
sort the Society had nothing to do." — Speech of Mr. Williams , 
16th Report, p. 13. 

" 4. Resolved, That the true and single object of the Society is 
that which is expressed in its original constitution, viz. : ' To pro- 
mote and execute a plan for colonizing, with their consent, the free 
people of colour residing in our country, in Africa, or such other 
place as Congress shall deem most expedient;' and that this object 
will be hereafter, as it has been heretofore, steadily adhered to. 

" The question was then taken on the 4th Resolution, reported 
by the Committees, and decided in the affirmative unanimously." — 
16th Report, ip. 22. 

If what is stated in the fourth resolution be the single 
object of this Society, where is the authority of its accredited 
agent, Elliott Cresson, for saying, in the Introduction to the 
Report of the Board of Managers of the Pennsylvania Colo- 
nization Society, that "the great objects of that Society were, 
the final and entire abolition of slavery V If any doubt still 
exist, it may be removed by an examination whether the effects 
have corresponded with its own avowed objects, or with the 
unauthorized declaration of its agent ; whether, in fact, any 
progress has been made towards the abolition of slavery. 

Some of the quotations in the preceding extracts are from 
the speeches at the annual meeting for 1832. Such as these, 
and the articles in the African Repository, a work " published 
by order of the managers of the American Colonization 
Society," have been objected to as not being the act of the 
Society itself. To this objection it is replied, that they accord 
with its fundamental rules, which have been afresh unani- 
mously recognized, as the principles on which it has always 
acted, and still continues to act; and that if the Society 
disapproved of any sentiment which was uttered by its friends 
and supporters, and which it published, — it would have dis- 
avowed such opinions. This it has done in the speech of B. J. 
Brack enridge, a member of the Society, but a determined enemy 
to slavery. After giving his speech in the 78th number of the 
African Repository, they remark, that " the speech, which we 
publish in our present number, is certainly an able and elo- 
quent production. In the sentiments generally of this speech 
we concur ; but we wish it to be understood, that we consider 






6 

slavery to be an evil which cannot, without producing greater 
evils than itself, be abolished, except by deliberate, cautious, 
and gradual measures." We may hence conclude, that had 
the Society disapproved the sentiments which had been pub- 
lished under its auspices,, it would have distinctly disavowed 
them, as in the instance of this abolitionist. 

There has of late been a great change in the disposition of 
the American slave-holders. Formerly emancipation went on 
as in other slave countries, so that the free Blacks had in- 
creased from 59,465, which was their number in 1790, to 
186,446, in 1810, showing a very large increase from eman- 
cipation; but between that time and the census taken in 
1830, they have only increased to 319,599 — showing scarcely 
any thing beyond the natural increase, Had emancipation 
continued at the same rate, there would have been, in 1830, 
584,578 ; thus no less than 264,979 are now held in slavery, 
who would have been made free, but for this change in 
feeling. 

Who will deny that the great obstacle to emancipation is 
that unchristian prejudice against the coloured people, which 
has led to the enactment of laws against manumission, and 
which prejudice this Society has encouraged, strengthened,, 
and palliated ? The Colonization Society has been in opera- 
tion for thirteen or fourteen years of the last period of twenty 
years ; and there can be no doubt, that so far from its having 
had any tendency to the abolition of slavery,, a considerable 
proportion of 264,979, still held in bondage, as before stated, 
may attribute that sore calamity to the existence of this 
Society. One thing must be admitted, that it has most fully 
sustained the character given of it by John Randolph at its 
first meeting. " So far" he says, "from being connected with 
the abolition of slavery, the measure proposed would prove one 
of the greatest securities to enable the master to keep in posses- 
sion his own property :" 

In the speech of the Hon. — Archer, 15th Report, page 26, 
(see No. 7, Appendix, — p. 13) the horrid scheme is laid open. 
" If none," he says, " were drained away, slaves would become 
inevitably and speedily redundant." If they were not but- 
chered, or checked by some other means, then " general eman- 
cipation and incorporation" would take place, " as in South 
America;" and this it seems is considered " a deplorable 
catastrophe." Is it possible this can be the language of a 
society whose aim is the abolition of slavery ? They propose 
" to provide and keep open a drain for the excess of increase 
beyond the occasions of profitable employment." It is impos- 
sible they can suppose, that these people could not find em- 
ployment in America profitable to themselves ; or that it is 



necessary to take them from a country not yet one-hundredth 
part peopled. No — they mean that they would become too 
numerous to be held in slavery, with profit to the masters ; 
and that slavery, if this Society did not open such a drain, 
would die a natural death ; that the immutable principles 
fixed by our beneficent Creator would, in the nature of things, 
produce in North America, as it has done in South America, 
and in other parts of the world, an extinction of this horrible 
system, if not prevented or obstructed by this impious scheme. 
Will Christian Britons dare then to support it ? 

These short-sighted men, who thus vainly attempt to frus- 
trate the beneficent designs of their Almighty Creator, must 
ultimately know to their cost, that their puny efforts shall 
fail ; that instead of draining off, their schemes are rapidly 
augmenting the number of slaves, and thus heaping up the 
means of vengeance against themselves. Have they forgotten 
who has said, " Vengeance is mine : I will repay it ? " 

After a review of these circumstances, it will cease to be 
surprising that so little progress has been made in emancipa- 
tion, especially in the middle States, where the transformation 
of the slaves into free men may be made with manifest and 
immediate advantage to their masters ; where the successful 
efforts of free labour are seen side by side with the deadening 
influence of slavery ; and where land cultivated by free men 
is of greater value than the land and slaves together in the 
same neighbourhood. Can there then be any doubt, that the 
extinction of the Colonization Society is the first step to the 
abolition of American slavery? And when we reflect that 
even good men, and sincere abolitionists, have been deceived 
by the glowing colours in which Liberia has been depicted, 
as a cloak for the abominations of the scheme, how can we 
avoid exclaiming with the poet — 

" What language e'er invented yet can paint 
Th' abhorrence due?" &c. 



*„* The reader will find the statements here advanced abundantly confirmed, 
if he will take the trouble to peruse the Appendix, in which there are copious 
extracts from the First Report of the New England Anti-Slavery Society. 




3 P E N D I X. 




Extracts from the First Report of the New England Anti- Slavery 

Society. 

With the doctrines, principles, and designs of the American 
Colonization Society, the New-England Anti-Slavery Society 
holds no fellowship — viewing them as utterly subversive of 
sound morality and the law of brotherly love, and calculated 
to inflame and strengthen those prejudices which have so long 
operated against the free coloured population of the United 
States. Submitting the motives of those who support the 
scheme of African Colonization to the inspection of Him who 
alone " searcheth the heart and trieth the reins," and cheer- 
fully exonerating the people of the free States, generally, from 
any design to persecute or enslave the people of colour in this 
land, the Managers proceed to state, as comprehensively as 
possible, some of the reasons which lead abolitionists to op- 
pose the American Colonization Society. 

They denounce and oppose it — 

1. Because (as has already been shown) it denies the power 
of the Gospel to overcome prejudice, and maintains that no 
moral or educational means can ever raise the coloured popu- 
lation from their degradation to respectability and usefulness 
in this country. (*) By inculcating this disgraceful doctrine, 
it measurably paralyzes, in the breasts of those who embrace 
it, all efforts to improve the character and condition of this 
unfortunate class. 

(') ' In every part of the United States, there is abroad and impassable line 
of demarcation between every man who has one drop of African blood in his 
veins, and every other class in the community. The habits, the feelings, all 
the prejudices of society — prejudices which neither refinement, nor argument, 
nor education, NOR RELIGION ITSELF, can subdue — mark the people 
of colour, whether bond or free, as the subjects of a degradation inevitable 
and incurable. The African in this country belongs by birth to the very 
lowest station in society ; and from that station HE CAN NEVER RISE, 
be his talents, his enterprise, his virtues what they may.* . . ' They con- 
stitute a class by themselves — a class out of which no individual can be ele- 
vated, and below which none can be depressed.' — [African Repository, vol. iv. 
pp. 118, 119.] 

1 We have endeavoured, but endeavoured in vain, to restore them either to 
self-respect, or to the respect of others. ( ! \ X) It is not our fault that we have 
failed : (! ! !) it is not theirs. It has resulted from a cause over which neither 
we, nor they, can ever have any control [that is to say, they have coloured 
skins! ! !]. Here, therefore, they must be for ever debased; more than this, 
they must be for ever useless; more even than this, they must be FOR 
EVER A NUISANCE, from which it were a blessing for society to be rid. 
And yet they, AND THEY ONLY, are qualified /or colonizing Afrka.'Q ! '.} 
— [Idem, vol. v. p. 276.] 



* They constantly hear the accents, and behold the triumphs, of a liberty 
which here they can never enjoy J . . . It is against this increase of coloured 
persons, who take but a nominal freedom here, and cannot rise from their de- 
graded condition, that this Society attempts to provide. — [Idem, vol. vi. 
pp. 17, 82.] 

6 Is it not wise, then, for the free people of colour and their friends to admit, 
what ca?inot reasonably be doubted, that the people of colour must, in this 
country, remain for ages, PROBABLY FOR EVER, a separate and in- 
ferior caste, weighed down by causes powerful, universal, inevitable ; which 
neither legislation nor CHRISTIANITY can remove?' — [Idem, vol. vii. p. 
196.] 

* The Managers consider it clear that causes exist, and are operating, to 
prevent their improvement and elevation to any considerable extent as a 
class, in this country, — which are fixed, not only beyond the control of the 

friends of humanity, but of any human power. Christianity will not do 
for them here, what it will do for them in Africa. This is not the fault of the 
coloured man, nor of the white man, nor of Christianity; but an ordination 
of Providence, and no more to be changed than the laws of nature." — [Fif- 
teenth Annual Report, p. 17.] 

2. Because it not only is not hostile to slavery, but in its 
reports and its official organ, and by its auxiliary societies 
and principal supporters, exonerates slave-holders from guilt, 
and represents their criminality as their misfortune. ( 2 ) 

( 2 ) ' Slavery is an evil which is entailed upon the present generation of 
slave-holders, which they must suffer, whether they will or not. 7 — [African 
Repository, vol. v. p. 179.] 

' It [the Society] condemns no man because he is a slave-holder. ! * * * 
* They [abolitionists] confound the misfortunes of one generation with the 
crimes of another, and would sacrifice both individual and public good to an 
unsubstantial theory of the rights of man.' — [Idem, vol. vii. pp. 200, 202.] 

' The existence of slavery among us, though not at all to be objected to our 
southern brethren as a fault, is yet a blot on our national character, and a 
mighty drawback from our national strength.' — [Second Annual Report of 
the N. Y. State Col. Soc] 

4 They do not perceive the propriety of confounding the crime of the kid- 
napper, with the misfortune of the owner of imported and inherited slaves.' — 
[North American Review for July, 1832.] 

3. Because it surrenders the great principle, that man can- 
not justly hold property in man; and regards the wresting of 
the slaves from their masters as great an outrage as the inva- 
sion of the right of property in houses, cattle, and lands. ( 3 ) 

( 3 ) * We hold their slaves, as we hold their other property, sacred.' — 
[African Repository, vol. i. p. 283.] 

e Does this Society wish to meddle with our slaves as our rightful property? 
I answer no, I think not.' — [Idem, vol. ii. p. 13.] 

' It is equally plain and undeniable, that the Society, in the prosecution of ' 
this work, has never interfered or evinced even a disposition to interfere in 
any way with the rights of proprietors of slaves' — [Idem, vol. vi. p. 205.] 

* To the slave-holder, who had charged upon them the wicked design of 
interfering with the rights of property, under the specious pretext of re- 
moving a vicious and dangerous free population, they address themselves in 
a tone of conciliation and sympathy. We know your rights, say they, and 
we respect them.' — [Idem, vol. vii. p. 100,] 

1 It was proper again and again to repeat, that it was far from the intention 
of the Society to affect, in any manner, the tenure by which a certain species 

E 3 




10 

of property is held. He was himself a slave-holder; and he considered that 
kind of property as inviolable as any other in the country' — [Speech of Henry 
Clay. First Annual Report.] 

4. Because it openly, actively, uncompromisingly, denounces 
the immediate abolition of slavery as injustice to the masters, 
a calamity to the slaves, dangerous to society, and contrary 
to the requirements of Christianity. < A ) 

( 4 ) * The scope of the Society is large enough, but it is in nowise mingled 
or confounded with the broad sweeping views of a few fanatics in America, 
who would urge us on to the sudden and total abolition of slavery.' — [Afri- 
can Repository, vol. iii. p. 197.] 

' What is to be done ? Immediate and universal emancipation will find 
few, if any advocates, among judicious and reflecting men.' * * * 'Here, 
that race is in every form a curse ; and if the system so long contended for 
by the uncompromising abolitionist could prevail, its effect would be to 
spread discord and devastation from one end of the Union to the other.' — 
[Idem, vol. iv. pp. 202, 363.] 

< Were the very spirit of angelic charity to pervade and fill the hearts of all 
the slave-holders in our land, it would by no means require that all the slaves 
should be instantaneously liberated.' — [Idem, vol. v. p. 329.] 

* The Society, meeting the objections of the abolition enthusiast, in a like 
spirit of mildness and forbearance, assures him of their equal devotion to the 
pure principles of liberty and the powerful claims of humanity'. . . . * We 
protest, most solemnly protest, against the adoption of your views, as alike de- 
structive of the ends of justice, of policy, and of humanity.' . . . 'Come, ye 
abolitionists, away with your wild enthusiasm, your misguided philanthropy J — 
[Idem, vol. vii. p. 101.] 

5. Because it advocates a cautious, partial, gradual eman- 
cipation, — thus allowing that it is not incumbent on all op- 
pressors to do justly and love mercy now, and that it is proper 
to cease from robbery and sin by a slow process. ( 5 ) 

( 5 ) Vide the evidence given in support of the 4th allegation. 

6. Because, while it professes to remove those emigrants 
only who go ' with their own consent' to Africa, it is the in- 
strument of a cruel persecution against the free people of 
colour, by its abuse of their character, representing them as 
seditious, dangerous, and useless : it contends, moreover, that 
emancipation should not take place without the simultaneous 
transportation of the liberated — thus leaving to the slave the 
choice of banishment or perpetual servitude. ( 6 ) 

( 6 ) * That the free coloured population of our country is a great and con- 
stantly-increasing evil, must be readily acknowledged. Averse to labour, 
with no incentives to industry or motives to self-respect, they maintain a pre- 
carious existence by petty thefts and plunder themselves, or by inciting our 
domestics, not free, to rob their owners to supply their wants/ — [African 
Repository, vol. vi. p. 135.] 

' Placed midway between freedom and slavery, they know neither the in- 
centives of the one, nor the restraints of the other; but are alike injurious, 
by their conduct and example, to all other classes of society.' — [Eighth An- 
nual Report, p. 56.'] 

i No scheme of abolition will meet my support, that leaves the emancipated 
blacks among us.' — [African Repository, vol. ii. p. 188.] 




11 

* We would say, liberate them only on condition of their going to Africa 
or to Hayti.' — [Idem, vol. iii. p. 26.] 

' 1 am not complaining of the owners of slaves ; it would be as humane to 
throw them from the decks in the middle passage, as to set them free in our 
country.' * * * ' Any scheme of emancipation without colonization, they know 
and see and feel to be productive of nothing but evil ; evil to all whom it 
affects : to the white population, to the slaves, to the manumitted themselves.'' 
— [Idem, vol. iv. pp. 226, 300.] 

* Hundreds who hold slaves would willingly set them at liberty, were the 
means of their removal provided. And, till those means are provided, the 
liberation of the slave would neither be a blessing to himself nor the public.' . . 
* It is not therefore incumbent upon those who hold slaves, to set them at 
liberty, till some means are provided for their removal, or at least for their 
subsistence. They owe it neither to themselves, to their country, nor the un- 
fortunate beings around them.' — [Idem, vol. v. p. 89.] 

4 If the question were submitted, whether there should be either immediate 
or gradual emancipation of all the slaves in the United States, without their 
removal or colonization, painful as it is to express the opinion, I have no doubt 
that it would be unwise to emancipate them.' '* * * ' Gentlemen of the high- 
est respectability from the south assure us, that there is among the owners of 
slaves a very extensive and increasing desire to emancipate them. Their 
patriotism, their humanity, nay their self-interest, prompt to this ; but it is 
not expedient, it is not safe to do it, without being able to remove them. 7 — 
[Idem, vol. vi. pp. 5, 110.] 

' The idea of emancipating our slaves, and permitting them to remain 
within the limits of the U. S., whether as a measure of humanity or of policy, 
is most decisively reprobated by universal public sentiment.' — [Idem, vol. 
vii. p. 230.] 

' All emancipation, to however small an extent, which permits the persons 
emancipated to remain in this country, is an evil, which must increase with 
the increase of the operation.' — [First Annual Report, p. 36, 37.] 

' They will annex the condition that the emancipated shall leave the coun- 
try.' — [Second Annual Report, p. 110.] 

' They require that the whole mass of free persons of colour, and those who 
may become such with the consent of their owners, should be progressively re- 
moved from among us, as fast as their own consent can be obtained, and as 
the means can be found for their removal, and for their proper establishment 
in Africa.' — [Seventh Annual Report, p. 113.] 

' Colonization, to be correct, must be beyond seas. Emancipation, with 
the liberty to remain on this side of the Atlantic, is but an act of dreamy 
madness !' — [Thirteenth Annual Report.] 

' The abolition of slavery was no object of desire to him, unless accom- 
panied by colonization. So far was he from desiring it, unaccompanied by 
this condition, that he vjould not live in a country where the one took place 
without the other! / /' — [Mr. Mercer's Speech in Congress.] 

' The Society maintains, that no slave ought to receive his liberty except on 
condition of being excluded, not merely from the state which sets him loose, 
but from the whole country; that is, of being colonized.' — [North American 
Review, for July, 1832.] 

7. Because it confesses that its measures are calculated tc 
secure the slave system from destruction, to remove the appre- 
hensions of slave-holders, to increase the value of slave pro- 
perty, and thus to perpetuate the thraldom of millions of 
native Americans. ( 7 ) The proposition is self-evident, that as 
the number of the slaves becomes reduced by transportation, 
the whole remaining mass will rise in value, and may be held 
more securely in bondage. 



1 



12 

( 7 ) ' So far from being connected with the abolition of slavery, the measure 
proponed would prove one of the greatest securities to enable the master to 
keep in jiossession his own property.' — [Speech of John Randolph at the first 
meeting of the Colonization Society.] 

* The slave seeing his free companion live in idleness, or subsist, however 
scantily or precariously, by occasional and desultory employment, is apt to 
grow discontented with his own condition, and to regard as tyranny and in- 
justice the authority which compels him to labour.' — [General Harper's Let- 
ter, First Annual Report, p. 32.] 

* The slaves would be greatly benefited by the removal of the free blacks, 
who now corrupt them and render them discontented.' — [Second Annual 
Report, p. 112.] 

' Their annual increase is truly astonishing, certainly unexampled. The 
dangerous ascendency which they have already acquired over the slaves is 
consequently increasing with every addition to their numbers ; and every 
addition to their numbers is a subtraction from the wealth, and strength, and 
character, and happiness, and safety of the country.' — [Twelfth Annual Re- 
port.] 

' We all know the effects produced on our slaves by the fascinating, but 
delusive appearance of happiness, exhibited in some persons of their own 
complexion, roaming in idleness and vice among them. By removing the 
most fruitful source of discontent from among our slaves, we should render 
them more industrious and attentive to our commands.' — [Fourteenth Annual 
Report.] 

' What is the free black to the slave ? A standing perpetual incitement to 
discontent. Though the condition of the slave be a thousand times the best — 
supplied, protected, instead of destitute and desolate — yet the folly of the 
condition held to involuntary labour, finds always allurement, in the spec- 
tacle of exemption from it, without consideration of the adjuncts of destitution 
and misery. The slave would have then little excitement to discontent, but 
for the free black.' — [Fifteenth Annual Report, p. 25.] 

' By removing these people, we rid ourselves of a large party who will al- 
ways be ready to assist our slaves in any mischievous design which they may 
conceive ; and who are better able, by their intelligence, and the facilities of 
their communication, to bring those designs to a successful termination.' — 
[African Repository, vol. i. p. 176.] 

' Here, the African part of our population bears so large a proportion to the 
residue of European origin, as to create the most lively apprehension, espe- 
cially in some quarters of the Union. Any project, therefore, by which, in 
a material degree, the dangerous element in the general mass can be dimi- 
nished or rendered stationary, deserves deliberate consideration.' — [Idem, vol. 
ii. p. 338.] 

1 To remove these persons from among us, will increase the usefulness, and 
improve the moral character of those who remain in servitude, and with whose 
labours the country is unable to dispense.'' * * * ' Are they vipers, who are 
sucking our blood? we will hurl them from us. It is not sympathy alone, — 
not sickly sympathy, no, nor manly sympathy either, — which is to act on us; 
but vital policy, self-interest, are also enlisting themselves on the humane side 
in our breasts.' — [Idem, vol. hi. pp. 67, 201.] 

' It places the attainment of the grand object in view, that is, to withdraw 
from the United States annually so many of the coloured population, and 
provide them a comfortable home and all the advantages of civilization in 
Africa, as will make the number here remain stationary. 7 * * * ' By thus re- 
pressing the too rapid increase of blacks, the white population would be enabled 
to reach and soon overtop them. The consequence would be security.' — 
[Idem, vol. iv. pp. 271, 344.] 

' They constitute a large mass of human beings, who hang as a vile excres- 
cence upon society — the objects of a low debasing envy to our slaves, and to 
ourselves of universal suspicion and .distrust.' * * * ' If this process were con- 



13 

tinued a second term of duplication, it would produce the extraordinary result 
of forty white men to one black in the country — a state of things in which we 
should not only cease to feel the burdens which now hang so heavily upon 
us, but actually regard the poor African as an object of curiosity, and not 
uneasiness. 7 * * * * Enoufh, under favourable circumstances, might be re- 
moved for a few successive years — if young females were encouraged to go — 
to keep the whole coloured population in check.' — [Idem, vol. vii. pp. 230, 
232, 246.] 

1 But is it not certain, that should the people of the southern States refuse 
to adopt the opinions of the Colonization Society, [relative to the gradual 
abolition of slavery,] and continue to consider it both just and politic to leave 
untouched a system, for the termination of which, we think the whole wisdom 
and energy of the States should be put in requisition, that they will CON- 
TRIBUTE MORE EFFECTUALLY TO THE CONTINUANCE AND 
STRENGTH OF THIS SYSTEM, by removing those now free, than by 
any or all other methods which can possibly be devised?' — [African Reposi- 
tory, vol. i. p. 227.1 

< THE EXECUTION OF ITS SCHEME WOULD AUGMENT IN- 
STEAD OF DIMINISHING THE VALUE OF THE PROPERTY 
LEFT BEHIND.'— [Idem, vol. ii. p. 344.] 

' The removal of every single free black in America, would be productive 
of nothing but safety to the slave-holder.' — [Idem, vol. iii. p. 202.] 

' The tendency of the scheme, and one of its objects, is to secure slave- 
holders, and the whole southern country, against certain evil con- 
sequences, growing out of the present threefold mixture of our population.' — 
[Address of the Rockbridge Col. Society. — Idem, vol. iv. p. 274.] 

* If, as is most confidently believed, the colonization of the free people of 
colour will render the slave who remains in America more obedient, more 
faithful, more honest, and, consequently, more useful to his master/ &c. — 
[Second Annual Report, p. 9.] 

1 If none were drained away, slaves became inevitably and speedily re- 
dundant. When this stage had been reached, what course or remedy re- 
mained ? Was open butchery to be resorted to, as among the Spartans with 
the Helots? or general emancipation and incorporation, as in South America? 
or abandonment of the country by the masters, as must come to be the case 
in the West Indies ? Either of these was a deplorable catastrophe. Could 
all of them be avoided? And, if they could — how? There was but one 
way, [to aveit danger,] but that might be made effectual, fortunately : 
it was to PROVIDE AND KEEP OPEN A DRAIN FOR THE EX- 
CESS OF INCREASE BEYOND THE OCCASIONS OF PROFIT- 
ABLE EMPLOYMENT. Mr. Archer had been stating the case in the 
supposition, that after the present class of free blacks had been exhausted, by 
the operation of the plan he was recommending, others would be supplied for 
its action, in the proportion of the excess of coloured population it would be 
necessary to throw off, by the process of voluntary manumission or sale. 
This effect must result inevitably from the depreciating value of the slaves 
ensuing their disproportionate multiplication. The depreciation would be 
relieved and retarded, at the same time, by the process. The two operations 
would aid reciprocally, and sustain each other, and both be in the highest 
degree beneficial. It was on the ground of interest, therefore, the most in- 
disputable pecuniary interest, that he addressed himself to the people and 
legislatures of the slave-holding States.' — [Speech of Mr. Archer. — Fifteenth 
Annual Report, p. 26, 27.] 

< None are obliged to follow our example ; AND THOSE WHO DO 
NOT WILL FIND THE VALUE OF THEIR NEGROES IN- 
CREASED BY THE DEPARTURE OF OURS.'— [An advocate of 
colonization in the Western (Ky.) Luminary.] 

1 So far from its having a dangerous tendency, when properly considered, 



14 

it will be viewed as an additional guard to our peculiar species of properly. 1 
— [An advocate of the Society in the New-Orleans Argus.] 

* The slave-holder, who is in danger of having his slaves contaminated by 
their free friends of colour, will not only be relieved from this danger, but 
THE VALUE OF HIS SLAVE WILL BE' ENHANCED.'— [A new 
and interesting view of Slavery. By Humanitas, a colonization advocate. 
Baltimore, 1820.] 

8. Because it was conceived, perfected, and is managed 
principally by those who hold thousands of their fellow-crea- 
tures in cruel bondage, regarding them as cattle, and shame- 
lessly refusing to let them go free ; ( 8 ) and, while they thus 
estimate and treat their miserable victims, it is a gross fallacy 
for them to pretend that they cherish any regard for the wel- 
fare of the free people of colour. They dare to call the 
rational creatures of the Most High their property, and per- 
tinaciously persist in their deeds of violence and robbery. 
i By their fruits ye shall know them.' As consistently might 
the distillers, importers, and retailers of ardent spirits unite to 
banish intemperance from the land, by colonizing all the 
drunkards, and still continue to poison all classes of society ; 
as well might debauchees associate together to rid the 
country of a ' great moral evil/ by removing some of the 
victims of their lust, as for slave-holders to conspire for the 
banishment of our free coloured population, under the mask 
of disinterested philanthropy, while they are daily plundering 
their slaves of every thing precious and sacred. The spec- 
tacle is truly revolting. 

( 8 ) ' What greater pledge can we give for the moderation and safety of 
our measures than our own interests as slave-holders, and the ties that bind us 
to the slave-holding communities to which we belong V — [Speech of Mr. Key. 
— Eleventh Annual Report.] 

' The earnestness with which the Legislature [of Virginia] prosecuted their 
design [of colonizing the free blacks] may be inferred from the fact, that the 
executive was requested to adopt measures of the same character with those 
just mentioned, at three several times anterior to 1806. But all these, it should 
be observed, were private proceedings ; and the injunction of secrecy has not 
been removed, so far as we know, to this day, excepting as to the fact that 
such proceedings took place. The first public expression of sentiment upon 
the subject of colonization was also made by the same body. This was in 
Dec. 1816.' . . . . ' The system originated in the wisdom of the 
Ancient Dominion. It was generously countenanced by Georgia in its 
earliest stages. Maryland has done more for it than all the other States. 
Kentucky and Tennessee have declared themselves ready to support any le- 
gitimate interposition of the General Government in its favour. Louisiana 
and Mississippi are beginning to act vigorously.' — [North American Review 
for July, 1832] 

' The second objection may be resolved into this : that the Society, under 
the specious pretext of removing a vicious and noxious population, is secretly 
undermining the rights of private property. This is the objection expressed 
in its full force ; and if your memorialists could for a moment believe it to be 
true in point of fact, they would never, slave-holders as they are, have asso- 
ciated themselves together for the purpose of co-operating with the Parent 
Society ; and far less would they have appeared in the character in which 



15 

they now do, before the legislative bodies of a slave-holding State/ — [Me- 
morial of the Auxiliary Colonization Society of Powhatan, to the Legislature 
of Virginia. — Twelfth Annual Report.] 

1 Your memorialists refer with confidence to the course they have pursued, 
in the prosecution of their objects for nine years past, to show that it is possible, 
without danger or alarm, to carry on such an operation, notwithstanding its 
supposed relation to the subject of slavery; and that they have not been re- 
gardless, in any of their measures, of what was due to the state of society in 
which they live. They are, themselves, chiefly slave- holders, and live with all 
the ties of life binding them to a slave-holding community.' — [Memorial of 
the Society to the several States. — Af. Rep. vol. ii. p. 58.] 

' The first great material objection is that the Society does, in fact, in spite 
of its denial, meditate and conspire the emancipation of the slaves. To the 
candid, let me say that there are names on the rolls of the Society too high 
to be rationally accused of the duplicity and insidious falsehood which this 
implies ; farther, the Society and its branches are composed, in by far the 
larger part, of citizens of slave-holding States, who cannot gravely be charged 
with a design so perilous to themselves.' * * * < Let me repeat, the 
friends of the Colonization Society, three-fourths of them, are slave-holders; 
the legislatures of Maryland, Georgia, Kentucky and Tennessee, all slavehold- 
ing States, have approved it ; every member of this auxiliary Society is, either 
in himself, or his nearest relatives, interested in holding slaves.' — [' The Colo- 
nization Society Vindicated.' — Idem, vol. hi. pp. 200, 202.] 

1 About twelve years ago, some of the wisest men of the nation, mostly 
slave-holders, formed, in the city of Washington, the present American Colo- 
nization Society.' — [Address of the Rockbridge Col. Society. — Idem, vol. iv. 
p. 274.] 

* Being chiefly slave-holders ourselves, we well know how it becomes us 
to approach such a subject asthis in a slave-holding State, and in every other. 
If there were room for a reasonable jealousy, we, among the first, should feel 
it ; being as much interested in the welfare of the community, and having as 
much at heart, as any men can have, the security of ourselves, our property, 
and our families.' — [Review of Mr. Tazewell's Report. — Idem, p. 341.] 

' Being mostly slave-holders ourselves, having a common interest with you 
in this subject, an equal opportunity of understanding it, and the same mo- 
tives to prudent action, what better guarantee can be afforded for the just dis- 
crimination, and the safe operation of our measures? — [Af. Rep. vol. vii. p. 
100.] 

9. Because it is Janus-faced, presenting one aspect to the 
south, and another, entirely different, to the north. Sometimes 
it is represented by its publications and supporters as the only 
scheme adapted to abolish slavery and the slave-trade, and 
evangelize Africa; at other times it denies that it has any re- 
ference to either of these subjects, but is simply endeavouring 
to remove such free persons of colour as wish to emigrate to 
Africa. ( y ) 

( 9 ) ' Its primary object now is, and ever has been, to colonize, with their 
own consent, free people of colour on the coast of Africa, or elsewhere, as 
Congress may deem expedient. And, Sir, I am unwilling to admit, under 
any circumstances, and particularly in this hall, that it ever has swerved 
from this cardinal object.' — [Speech of Mr. Benham. — Fourteenth Annual 
Report, p. 23.] 

* Our Society and the friends of colonization wish to be distinctly under- 
stood upon this point. From the beginning they have disavowed, and they 
do yet disavow, that their object is the emancipation of the slaves.' — [Speech 
of James S. Green, Esq. — First Annual Report of the New Jersey Col. Soc] 



16 

' This institution proposes to do good by a single specific course of mea- 
sures. Its direct and specific purpose is not the abolition of slavery, or the 
relief of pauperism, or the extension of commerce and civilization, or the 
enlargement of science, or the conversion of the heathen. The single object 
which its constitution prescribes, and to which all its efforts are necessarily- 
directed, is, African colonization from America. It proposes only to afford 
facilities for the voluntary emigration of free people of colour from this 
country to the country of their fathers.' — [Review on African Colonization. — 
Christian Spectator for September, 1830.] 

1 It is ?io Abolition Society; it addresses as yet arguments to no master, and 
disavows with horror the idea of offering temptations to any slave. It denies 

THE DESIGN OF ATTEMPTING EMANCIPATION, EITHER PARTIAL OR GENERAL.' 

—['The Col. Society Vindicated.'— Af. Rep. vol. iii. p. 197.] 

' They can impress upon the southern slave-holder, by the strength of facts, 
and by the recorded declarations of honest men, that the objects of the Co- 
lonization Society are altogether pure and praiseworthy, and that it has no in- 
tention to open the door to universal liberty, but only to cut out a channel, 
where the merciful providence of God may cause those dark waters to flow 
off.' — [Idem, vol. iv. p. 145.] 

' The Colonization Society, as such, have renounced wholly the name and 
the characteristics of abolitionists. On this point they have been unjustly 
and injuriously slandered. Into their accounts the subject of emanci- 
pation does not enter at all.' — [' N. E.' — Idem, p. 306.] 

' From its origin, and throughout the whole period of its existence, it has 
constantly disclaimed all intention whatever of interfering, in the smallest de- 
gree, with the rights of property, or the object of emancipation, gradual or 
• immediate.' * * * ' The Society presents to the American public no 
project of emancipation. 1 — [Mr. Clay's Speech. — Idem, vol. vi. pp. 13, 17.] 

' It is not the object of this Society to liberate slaves, or touch the rights of 
property.' — [Report of the Kentucky Col. Soc. — Idem, p. 81.] 

' The emancipation of slaves, or the amelioration of their condition, with 
the moral, intellectual, and political improvement of people of colour within 
the United States, are subjects foreign to the powers of this Society.' — [Ad- 
dress of the Board of Managers of the American Colonization Society to its 
Auxiliary Societies. — Idem, vol. vii, p. 291.] 

,' It disclaims, and always has disclaimed, all intention whatever of inter- 
fering in the smallest degree, direct or indirect, with the rights of slave-holders, 
the right of property, or the object of emancipation, gradual or immediate. 
It knows that the owner of slaves are the owners, and no one else — it does 
not, in the most remote degree, touch that delicate subject. Every slave- 
holder may, therefore, remain at ease concerning it, or its progress or objects.' 
— [An Advocate of the Society in the New Orleans Argus.] 

' The Society, as a society, recognizes no principles in reference to the slave 
system. It says nothing, and proposes to do nothing, respecting it.' 
. . . . ' So far as we can ascertain, the supporters of the colonization 
policy generally believe, that slavery is in this country a constitutional and 
legitimate system, which they have neither inclination, interest, 
nor ability to disturb.' — [North American Review for July, 1832.] 

10. Because it impiously holds that slave-holders are such 
from necessity ; that the atrocious laws which are enacted 
against the free coloured and slave population are justified by- 
sound policy ; and that it is wrong to increase the number of 
the free blacks by emancipation. ( 10 ) 

( 10 ) ' Recognizing the constitutional and legitimate existence of slavery, it 
seeks not to interfere, either directly or indirectly, with the rights which it creates. 
Acknowledging the necessity by which its present continuance and the rigorous 



17 

provisions for its maintenance are justified, it aims only at furnishing the States 
in which it exists the means of immediately lessening its severities, and of 
ultimately relieving themselves from its acknowledged evils.' — [Opimius in 
reply to Caius Gracchus. — Af. Rep. vol. iii. p. 16.] 

1 It condemns no man because he is a slave-holder.' — [Idem, vol. vii. 
p. 200.] 

1 There is a golden mean, which all who would pursue the solid interest and 
reputation of their country may discern at the very heart of their confederation, 
and will both advocate and enforce — a principle of justice, conciliation, and 
humanity — a principle, Sir, which is not inconsistent with itself, and yet can 
sigh over the degradation of the slave, defend the wisdom and prudence of 
the South against the charge of studied and pertinacious cruelty,' &c. — 
[Address of Robert F. Stockton, Esq. at the Eighth Annual Meeting of the 
Parent Society.] 

' We all know, from a variety of considerations which it is unnecessary to 
name, and in consequence of the policy which is obliged to be pursued in the 
southern States, that it is extremely difficult to free a slave ; and hence the 
enactment of those laws which a fatal necessity seems to demand.' — [African 
Repository, vol. ii. p. 12.] 

' They are convinced that there are now hundreds of masters who are so 
only from necessity' — [Memorial of the Society to the several States. — Idem, 
vol. ii. p. 60.] 

1 He (the planter) looks around him and sees that the condition of the great 
mass of emancipated Africans is one in comparison with which the condition 
of his slaves is enviable. — Hundreds of humane and Christian slave-holders 
retain their fellow-men in bondage, because they are convinced that they 
can do no better.' — [Address of the Managers of the Col. Soc. of Connec- 
ticut. — Idem. vol. iv. p. 120.] 

' Slavery, in its mildest form, is an evil of the darkest character. Cruel and 
unnatural in its origin, no plea can be urged in justification of its continuance 
but the plea of necessity. — [Idem, vol. v. p. 334.] 

* How much more consistent and powerful would be our example, but for 
that population within our limits, whose condition (necessary condition, I 
will not deny) is so much at war with our institutions, and with that memorable 
national declaration — that all men are created equal V — [Fourteenth Ann. 
Report.] 

1 Sucn unhappily is the case ; but there is a necessity for it, [for oppressive 
laws,] and so long as they remain among us will that necessity continue.' — 
[Ninth Annual Report, p. 7.] 

' Much as we lament the reasons for this sentiment, and the apparent neces- 
sity of keeping a single fellow-creature in ignorance, we willingly leave to 
others the consideration and the remedy of this evil, in view of the overwhelm- 
ing magnitude of the remaining objects before us. — [Address of the Board of 
Managers of the African Education Society of the United States.] 

' Thousands are connected with the system of slavery from necessity, and 
not from choice/ . . . ' The vast majority of those who would emanci- 
pate, we have no hesitation in saying, are deterred from it by a patriotism 
and a philanthropy, which look beyond the bounds of their particular dis- 
trict, and beyond the ostensible quality of the mere abstract act.' — [North 
American Review, July, 1832.] 

1 What but sorrow can we feel at the misguided piety which has set free so 
many of them by death-bed devise or sudden conviction of injustice ? Better, 
far better, for us, had they been kept in bondage, where the opportunity, the 
inducements, the necessity of vice would not have been so great — deplorable 
necessity, indeed, to one borne down with the consciousness of the violence we 
have done ; — yet I am clear that, whether we consider it with reference to the 
welfare of the State, or the happiness of the blacks, it were better to have left 
them in chains, than to have liberated them to receive such freedom as they 



I 



18 

enjoy ; and greater freedom we cannot, must not allow them.' — African Re- 
pository, vol. iii. p. 197.] 

' They leave a country in which, though born and reared, they are strangers 
and aliens; where severe necessity places them in a class of degraded beings.' 
— [Idem, vol. v. p. 238.] 

' Our great and good men purposed it primarily as a system of relief for two 
millions of fellow-men in our own country — a population dangerous to our- 
selves and necessarily degraded here' — [Idem, vol. vi. p. 295.] 

' Slavery is a system for the existence of which, a single moment, no plea 
can be valid but the plea of necessity.' — [Letter of Rev. R. R. Gurley, vide 
Hudson (Ohio) Observer and Telegraph, December 20, 1832.] 

' It is a well-established point, that the public safety forbids either the eman- 
cipation or the general instruction of the slaves.' — [Seventh Annual Report.] 

' The managers could with no propriety depart from their original and 
avowed purpose, and make emancipation their object. And they would 
further say, that if they were not thus restrained by the terms of their associa- 
tion, they would still consider any attempts to promote the increase of the free 
coloured population by manumission, unnecessary, premature, and dangerous.' 
— [African Repository, vol. ii. p. 60.] 

* To SET THEM LOOSE AMONG US WOULD BE AN EVIL MORE INTOLERABLE 

than slavery itself. It would make our situation insecure and danger- 
ous.' — [Report of the Kentucky Col. Soc. — Idem, vol. vi. p. 81.] 

' Policy, and even the voice of humanity, forbade the progress of manu- 
mission ; and the salutary hand of law came forward to co-operate with our 
convictions, and to arrest the flow of our feelings, and the ardour of our 
desires.' — [Review of the Report of the Com. of Foreign Relations. — African 
Repository, vol. iv. p. 268.] 

* Many thousand individuals in our native State, you well know, Mr. Pre- 
sident, are restrained,' said Mr. Mercer, ' from manumitting their slaves, as you 
and I are, by the melancholy conviction that they cannot yield to the sugges- 
tions of humanity, without manifest injury to the country.' * * * ' The 
laws of Virginia now discourage, and very wisely, perhaps, the emancipation 
of slaves.' — [Speech of Mr. Mercer. — First Annual Report, 15, 16.] 

' There are men in the southern States who long to do something effectual 
for the benefit of their slaves, and would gladly emancipate them, did not 
prudence and compassion alike forbid such a measure.' — [Review of the 
Reports of the Society from the Christian Spectator. — Seventh Annual Report.] 

* We do not ask that the provisions of our constitution and statute-book 
should be so modified as to relieve and exalt the condition of the coloured 
people, whilst they remain with us. LET THESE PROVISIONS STAND 
IN ALL THEIR RIGOUR, to work out the ultimate and unbounded good 
of this people. Persuaded that their condition here is not susceptible of a 
radical and permanent improvement, we would deprecate any legislation that 
should encourage the vain and injurious hope of it.' — [Memorial of the New- 
York State Col. Society.] 

11. Because its mode of civilizing and christianizing Africa 
is preposterous, cruel, and wild, and exactly fitted to raise up 
strong if not insurmountable barriers to the progress of the 
gospel in that country ; for the very persons it proposes to re- 
move, it describes as constituting the vilest class on the face of 
the earth, who nevertheless are well qualified to act as in- 
structors and missionaries in Liberia ! # Truly has it been 

* ' Every emigrant to Africa is a MISSIONARY, carrying with him 
credentials in the holy cause of civilization, religion, and free institutions'! ! ! 
— [Speech of Mr. Clay — Tenth Annual Report.] 



19 

said, that the project of evangelizing a heathenish country, by 
sending to it an illiterate, degraded, and irreligious popula- 
tion, for absurdity and inaptitude, stands, and must for ever 
stand, without a parallel: of all the offspring of prejudice and 
oppression, it is the most shapeless and unnatural. Men who 
are intellectually and morally blind are violently removed 
from light effulgent into thick darkness, in order that they 
may obtain light themselves and diffuse light among others ! 
Ignorance is sent to instruct ignorance, ungodliness to exhort 
ungodliness, vice to stop the progress of vice, and depravity 
to reform depravity ! All that is abhorrent to our moral sense, 
or dangerous to our quietude, or villanous in human nature, we 
benevolently disgorge upon Africa for her temporal and eter- 
nal welfare ! ( n ) We propose to build upon her shores, for 
her glory and defence, colonies framed of materials which we 
discard as worthless for our own use, and which possess no 
fitness or durability ! Admirable consistency ! surprising wis- 
dom ! unexampled benevolence ! 

(") ' Free blacks are a greater nuisance than even slaves themselves.' — 
[Af. Repository, vol. ii. p. 189.] 

* Although there are individual exceptions distinguished by high moral and 
intellectual worth, yet the free blacks in our country are, as a body, more 
vicious and degraded than any other which our population embraces.' * * * 
' There is not a state in the Union [which is] not at this moment groaning 
under the evil of this class of persons, a curse and a contagion wherever they 
reside.' — [Idem. vol. iii. pp. 24, 203.] 

1 Mr. Mercer adverted to the situation of his native state, and the condition 
of the free black population existing there, whom he described as a horde of 
miserable people — the objects of universal suspicion; subsisting by plun- 
der. — [Idem, vol. iv. p. 363.] 

' Of all the descriptions of our population, and of either portion of the Afri- 
can race, the free people of colour are by far, as a class, the most corrupt, 
depraved, and ABANDONED.' . . . . ' They have no home, no country, no 
kindred, no friends. They are lazy and indolent, because they have no mo- 
tives to prompt them to be industrious. They are in general destitute of 
principle, because they have nothing to stimulate them to honourable and 
praiseworthy conduct. — [Idem, vol. vi. pp. 12, 228.] 

' The existence, within the very bosom of our country, of an anomalous race 
of beings, the most debased upon earth, who neither enjoy the blessings 
of freedom, nor are yet in the bonds of slavery, is a great national evil, 
which every friend of his country most deeply deplores, 7 — [Idem, vol. vii. p. 
230.] 

1 The class we first seek to remove are neither freemen nor slaves ; but be- 
tween both, and more miserable than either.' * * * e Leaving slavery 
and its subjects for the moment entirely out of view, there are in the United 
States 238,000 blacks denominated free, but whose freedom confers on them, 
we might say, no privilege but the privilege of being more vicious and miser- 
able than slaves can be.'— [Seventh Annual Report, pp. 12, 99.] 

' Of all classes of our population, the most vicious is that of the free coloured . 
It is the inevitable result of their moral, political, and civil degradation. Con- 
taminated themselves, they extend their vices to all around them, to the slaves 
and to the whites.' — [Tenth Annual Report, p. 21.] 

12. Because it is held in abhorrence by the free people of 



20 

colour, wherever they possess the liberty of speech and the 
means of intelligence, as a scheme full of evil to themselves 
and to their enslaved brethren ; and to expect a change in 
their sentiments, after so long a time, and the reiterated pub- 
lic expressions of their undying hostility, is gross fatuity. ( 12 ) 

( I2 ) RESOLUTIONS PASSED BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF 
PHILADELPHIA. 

Resolved, That we view with deep abhorrence the unmerited stigma at- 
tempted to be cast upon the reputation of the free people of colour, by the 
promoters of this measure, ' that they are a dangerous and useless part of the 
community/ when in the state of disfranchisement in which they live, in the 
hour of danger, they ceased to remember their wrongs, and rallied around the 
standard of their country. 

Resolved, That we never will separate ourselves voluntarily from the slave 
population in this country ; they are our brethren by the ties of consanguinity, 
of suffering, and of wrong ; and we feel that there is more virtue in suffering- 
privations with them, than fancied advantages for a season. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF NEW-YORK. 

Resolved, That we view the resolution calling on the worshippers of Christ, 
to assist in the unholy crusade against the coloured population of this country, 
as totally at variance with true Christian principles. 

Resolved, That we claim this country, the place of our birth, and not 
Africa, as our mother country, and all attempts to send us to Africa we con- 
sider as gratuitous and uncalled-for. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF BOSTON. 

Resolved, That this meeting look upon the American Colonization Society 
as a clamorous, abusive, and peace-disturbing combination. 

Resolved, That this meeting look upon the conduct of those clergymen, 
who have filled the ears of their respective congregations with the absurd 
idea of the necessity of removing the free coloured people from the United 
States, as highly deserving the just reprehension directed to the false prophets 
and priests, by Jeremiah the true prophet, as recorded in the 23rd chapter of 
his prophecy. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF BALTIMORE. 

Resolved, That it is the belief of this meeting, that the American Coloniza- 
tion Society is founded more in a selfish policy., than in the true principles of 
benevolence : — and, therefore, so far as it regards the life-giving spring of its 
operations, is not entitled to our confidence, but should be viewed by us with 
all that caution and distrust which our happiness demands. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF WASHINGTON, D. C 

Resolved, That this meeting view with distrust the efforts made by the Co- 
lonization Society to cause the free people of colour of these United States to 
emigrate to Liberia on the coast of Africa, or elsewhere. 

Resolved, That it is the declared opinion of the members of this meeting, 
that the soil which gave them birth is their only true and veritable home, and 
that it would be impolitic, unwise, and improper for them to leave their home 
without the benefits of education. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF BROOKLYN, N. Y. 

Resolved, unanimously, That the call of this meeting be approved of; and 
that the coloured citizens of this village have, with friendly feelings, taken into 
consideration the objects of the American Colonization Society, together with 
all its auxiliary movements, preparatory for our removal to the coast of Africa: 






21 

and we view them as wholly gratuitous, not called for by us, and not essential 
to the real welfare of our race. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF HARTFORD, CT. 

Resolved, That it is the opinion of this meeting, that the American Colo- 
nization Society is actuated by the same motives which influenced the mind 
of Pharaoh, when he ordered the male children of the Israelites to be de- 
stroyed. 

Resolved, That it is the belief of this meeting, that the Society is the great- 
est foe to the free coloured and slave population with whom liberty and 
equality have to contend. 

Resolved, That, in our belief, we have committed no crime worthy of ban- 
ishment, and that we will resist, even unto death, all the attempts of the 
Colonization Society to banish us from this our native land. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF M1DDLETOWN, CT. 

Resolved, That the proceedings of our brethren in Brooklyn, N. Y., meet 
our entire approbation : they breathe our sentiments in full, and may our 
voices cheerfully accord with them in protesting against leaving this our na- 
tive soil. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF NEWHAVEN, CT. 

Resolved, That we will resist all attempts made for our removal to the 
torrid shores of Africa, and will sooner suffer every drop of blood to be taken 
from our veins than submit to such unrighteous treatment. 

Resolved, That we consider the American Colonization Society founded on 
principles that no Afric-American, unless very weak in mind, will follow ; 
and any man who will be persuaded to leave his own country, and go to 
Africa, is an enemy to his country, and a traitor to his brethren. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF COLUMBIA, PA. 

Resolved, That it is our firm belief, that the Colonization Society is replete 
with infinite mischief, and that we view all the arguments of its advocates as 
mere sophistry, not worthy our notice as freemen. 

Resolved, That we will not be duped out of our rights as freemen, by 
colonizationists, nor by any other combination of men. All the encomiums 
pronounced upon Liberia can never form the least temptation to induce us to 
leave our native soil, to emigrate to a strange land. 

Resolved, That it is the decided opinion of this meeting, that African 
colonization is a scheme of southern policy, a wicked device of slave-holders 
who are desirous of riveting more firmly, and perpetuating more certainly, 
the fetters of slavery ; who are only anxious to rid themselves of a population 
whose presence, influence, and example, have a tendency (as they suppose) to 
produce discontent among the slaves, and to furnish them with incitements to 
rebellion. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF NANTUCKET. 

Resolved, That the call of this meeting be approved of, and that the 
coloured citizens of this town have with friendly feelings taken into considera- 
tion the objects of the Colonization Society, together with its movements pre- 
paratory for our removal to the coast of Africa ; and we view them as wholly 
gratuitous, not called for by us, and in no way essential to the welfare of our 
race ; and we believe that our condition can be best improved in this 
our own country and native soil, the United States of America. 

Resolved, That there is no philanthropy towards the people of colour in 
the colonization plan, but that it is got up to delude us away from our country 
and home into a country of sickness and death. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF PITTSBURG, PA. 

Resolved, That it is the decided opinion of this meeting, that African colo- 
nization is a scheme to drain the better-informed part of the coloured people 



22 

out of these United States, so that the chain of slavery may be riveted more 
tightly ; but we are determined not to be cheated out of our rights by the 
colonization men, or any other set of intriguers. 

Resolved, That we, the coloured people of Pittsburg and citizens of these 
United States, view the country in which we live as our only true and proper 
home. We are just as much natives here as the members of the Colonization 
Society. Here we were born — here bred — here are all our earliest and most 
pleasant associations — here is all that binds man to earth, and makes life 
valuable. And we do consider every coloured man who allows himself to be 
colonized in Africa, or elsewhere, a traitor to our cause. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF WILMINGTON, DEL. 

Resolved, That this meeting view with deep regret the attempt now mak- 
ing to colonize the free people of colour on the western coast of Africa ; be- 
lieving as we do that it is inimical to the best interests of the people of colour, 
and at variance with the principles of civil and religious liberty, and wholly 
incompatible with the spirit of the constitution and declaration of independ- 
ence of these United States. 

Resolved, That we disclaim all connexion with Africa ; and, although the 
descendants of that much-affiicted country, we cannot consent to remove to 
any tropical climate, and thus aid in a design having for its object the total 
extirpation of our race from this country, professions to the contrary notwith- 
standing. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF HARRISBURG, PA. 

Resolved, That we reject the inhuman and unchristian measures taken by 
the Colonization Society, for the illumination of the coloured citizens of the 
United States, their appropriate home, in a land of sickness, affliction, and 
death, when they are not willing, with few exceptions, to give us a Christian 
education while among them. 

Resolved, That this meeting look upon the Colonization Society as a vicious, 
nefarious, and peace-disturbing combination, and that its leaders might as well 
essay to cure a wound with an argument, or set a dislocated bone by a lec- 
ture on logic, as to tell us their object is to better our condition. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF ROCHESTER, N. Y. 

Resolved, That we never will remove to Africa ; but should any of our 
brethren wish to emigrate, we would recommend Canada as a country far 
more congenial to our constitutions. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF PROVIDENCE, R. I. 

Resolved, That we view, with unfeigned astonishment, the anti-christian 
and inconsistent conduct of those who so strenuously advocate our removal 
from this our native country to the burning shores of Liberia, and who with 
the same breath contend against the cruelty and injustice of Georgia in her 
attempt to remove the Cherokee Indians west of the Mississippi. 

Resolved, That we will not leave our homes, nor the graves of our fathers, 
and this boasted land of liberty and Christian philanthropy. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF TRENTON, N. J. 

Resolved, Whereas we have lived peaceably and quietly in these United 
States, of which we are natives, and have never been the cause of any insur- 
rectionary or tumultuous movements as a body, that we do view every mea- 
sure taken by any associated bodies to remove us to other climes, anti-chris- 
tian and hostile to our peace, and a violation of the laws of humanity. 

Resolved, That we view the American Colonization Society as the most in- 
veterate foe both to the free and slave man of colour. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF LYME, CT. 

Resolved, That it is the sincere opinion of this meeting, that the American 
Colonization Society is one of the wildest projects ever patronised by a body 



23 

of enlightened men ; and further, that many of those who support it would 
be willing, if it were in their power, to drive us out of existence. 

Resolved, That though we be last in calling a meeting, we feel no less the 
pernicious influence of this Society than the rest of our brethren ; and that we 
will resist every attempt to banish us from this our native land. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF LEWISTOWN, PA. 

Resolved, that we will not leave these United States, the land of our birth, 
for a home in Africa. 

Resolved, That we will strenuously oppose the colonizing of the free people 
of colour in Liberia. 

BY THE COLOURED INHABITANTS OF NEW-BEDFORD. 

Resolved, That in whatever light we view the Colonization Society, we 
discover nothing in it but terror, prejudice, and oppression ; that the warm 
and beneficent hand of philanthropy is not apparent in the system ; but the 
influence of the Society on public opinion is more prejudicial to the interest 
and welfare of the people of colour in the United States than slavery itself. 

BY THE NATIONAL COLOURED CONVENTION, HELD IN PHILADELPHIA, 
IN 1831. 

The Convention has not been unmindful of the operations of the American 
Colonization Society ; and it would respectfully suggest to that august body 
of learning, talent, and worth, that, in our humble opinion, strengthened too 
by the opinions of eminent men in this country, as well as in Europe, that 
they are pursuing the direct road to perpetuate slavery, with all its unchris- 
tian-like concomitants, in this boasted land of freedom ; and, as citizens and 
men, whose best blood is sapped to gain popularity for that institution, we 
would, in the most feeling manner, beg of them to desist : or, if we must be 
sacrificed to their philanthropy, we would rather die at home. Many of our 
fathers, and some of us, have fought and bled for the liberty, independence, 
and peace which you now enjoy; and, surely, it would be ungenerous and 
unfeeling in you to deny us a humble and quiet grave in that country which 
gave us birth. 

BY THE SAME CONVENTION IN 1832. 

Resolved, That we still solemnly and sincerely protest against any inter- 
ference, on the part of the American Colonization Society, with the free co- 
loured population in these United States, so long as they shall countenance 
or endeavour to use coercive measures, (either directly or indirectly,) to colo- 
nize us in any place which is not the object of our choice. And we ask them 
respectfully, as men and as Christians, to cease their unhallowed persecutions 
of a people already sufficiently oppressed ; or if, as they profess, they have 
our welfare and prosperity at heart, to assist us in the object of our choice. 

We might here repeat our protest against that institution ; but it is unne- 
cessary. Our views and sentiments have long since gone to the world — the 
wings of the wind have borne our disapprobation to that institution. Time 
itself cannot erase it. We have dated our opposition from its beginning, and 
our views are strengthened by time and circumstances, and they hold the 
uppermost seat in our affections. 

Finally, abolitionists oppose the Colonization Society, be- 
cause it neither calls for any change of conduct toward the 
people of colour, on the part of the nation, nor has in 

ITSELF ANY PRINCIPLE OF REFORM. It Confesses to be 

actuated and governed by strong, vindictive prejudices — 
6 prejudices, which neither refinement, nor argument, nor edu- 
cation, nor religion itself, can overcome/ — prejudices l which 



24 

are fixed beyond the control of any human power,' which 
spring- l from an ordination of Providence/ and which are 
' no more to be changed than the laws of nature.' But be- 
nevolence and prejudice do not run in the same channel — 
they are opposed to each other. Hence the Society is not a 
benevolent institution, according to its own confessions ; and, 
therefore, does not deserve the confidence or patronage of 
benevolent men. 

To prove the truth of the last allegation, it is only necessary 
to remember that the reason which is given by the Society for 
expatriating the coloured population is, — the wickedness of the 
people — the determination, on their part, never to cease from 
persecuting those whom they have so long abused, degraded, 
and enslaved. Yet the Society boasts that it receives the 
support of a great majority of the nation — that it is cherished 
by all religious denominations — and that it is hailed empha- 
tically by ' the voice of the people.' If this be so, — if the 
friends of the Society constitute an overwhelming majority in 
this country, and they are actuated by true philanthropy, — 
if it is opposed only by ( a few wild fanatics, otherwise named 
abolitio?iists, (who, certainly, are ready to give the people of 
colour equal rights and privileges,) — and if, nevertheless, no- 
thing but colonization can save the coloured population from 
persecution and servitude, — is it not evident that nothing is 
wanting to render unnecessary this disgraceful expulsion, but 
that the supporters of the scheme should abandon their pre- 
judices, clothe themselves with humility, and be Christians 
and republicans indeed ? It is undeniable that the popularity 
of the Society is immense ; but if it be a benevolent institu- 
tion, and exercise a wide and powerful moral influence, and is 
thus popular, how does it happen that no change, but for the 
worse, has taken place in the legal condition of the people of 
colour, or in public sentiment ? Has one prejudice been era- 
dicated by its operations ? Has it commended itself to the 
gratitude and confidence of the objects of its benevolence, as 
the Howard Benevolent Society has done to the recipients of 
its bounty ? Are not all who are hostile to our free coloured 
population, in favour of their banishment ? Is not the design 
of the Society universally agreeable to the proud, the vulgar, 
the insolent, the scornful ? Who, but its supporters, descant 
upon the prejudices which exist against the blacks? who, but 
themselves, acknowledge that they are swayed by those pre- 
judices — powerfully and unalterably? 



London : Printed by S. Bagater, Jnn., 14, Bartholomew Close. 



