re 



75T7V. S' k<3 flo.n 



"RELIEVE THE OPPRESSED." 

A SERMON 

PREACHED 

hi tyz Cartel; €§imt) of TOeat fSromtottf;, 

ON SUNDAY, NOVEMEER 27, 1825, 

ON THE DUTY OF THE PEOPLE OF THIS COUNTRY 
TOWARDS THEIR FELLOW-SUBJECTS, 

THE 

BRITISH NEGRO SLAVES 

BY CHARLES TOWNSEND, A. M. 

RECTOR OF CALSTONE, WILTS. 

AND PERPETUAL CURATE OF WEST BROMW1CH, IN THE 

COUNTY OF STAFFORD. 



And tijcy said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning our 
brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought us; 
*nd we would not hear. 

Genesis xlii. 2V 



THIRD EDITION. 



BIRMINGHAM : 
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY BENJAMIN HUDSON ; 

AND SOLD IN LONDON BY 
J. HATCHARD AND SON, PICCADILLY. 



1S30. 



fes.75?f. r *a *o.7 



THOMAS CLARKSON, 

THN FRIEND OF HUMANITY, THE ENEMY OF OPPRESSK>», 
, THE DEVOTED, INTREPID, UNWEARIED AS8ERTOR 

OF THE11IGKTS 
OF THE INJURED SONS OF AFRICA, 

► THIS HUMBLE ATTEMPT TO SERVE THE CAUSE 
TO WHICH HIS LIFE AND TALENTS HAVE BEEN CONSECRATED, 

IS INSCRIBED, 

IN TOKEN OF THE S1NCEREST RESPECT, REGARD, AND ESTEEM, 
BY HIS VERY FAITHFUL SERVANT, 

CHARLES TOWNSEND. 



ADVERTISEMENT TO THE THIRD EDITION. 

Happy should I have been, if It could be said with truth, 
that a Sermon preached on the subject of Negro Slavery so 
long as five years ago must, by this time, be out of date , in 
consequence of the improved condition of our enslaved fellow- 
subjects, and the progress made towards their ultimate en- 
franchisement. So far, however, is this from being the case, 
that both the law and the practice of Colonial slavery continue 
to this hour (with, few and slight exceptions) as iniquitous 
and inhuman as ever; and advancement towards final eman- 
cipation there is, and has been, none. The proceedings of the 
Local Legislatures, and particularly the re-enactment of the 
disallowed Slave Act, by the Jamaica House of Assembly, 
without a tittle of amendment, evinces too clearly the unalter- 
able determination of the Colonists to resist to the utmost the 
will of the Mother Country for the deliverance of the victims 
of their oppres? ion, and to do nothing effectual either for the 
bettering of their present condition, or for their eventual re- 
toration to freedom. 

Neither must it be forgotten, that if the recommendations 
of Government and the Imperial Parliament in 1823, instead 
of having been contumaciously rejected by those to whose 
approval they were submitted, had been adopted, and acted 
upon, in their fullest extent, still absolutely nothing would 
have been done thereby towards fixing a date (however re- 
mote) for the termination of Slavery in the Dependencies of 
the British Crown. It is a lamentable truth — and a truth 
which no Englishman, worthy the name, can reflect upon 
without feelings of humiliation, grief, and shame, that for 
aught which the Government of this country has yet done, or 
proposed to do, slavery, injustice, and oppression, may be 
perpetuated in every one of our West India Colonies, charter- 
ed or unchartered, to the end of time. 

January 16, 1830. C. T. 



A SERMON, 



ISAIAH I. 17. 

BELIEVE THE OPPRESSED. 



If the duty of mutual admonition be a duty which 
every member of the household of God on earth is 
bound, on proper occasions to fulfil, it must certainly 
be one which presses with peculiar weight on those 
who are set as Watchmen in Israel, under an especial 
commission to show the people of the Lord their 
transgressions, and the house of Jacob their sins. It 
must be at the peril of their own souls, that persons in- 
vested with this high trust, ever " suffer sin upon their 
neighbour" unrebuked, even though the sin so pass- 
ed over, should merely be one of thoughtlessness, igno- 
rance, or inadvertence ; and therefore differing widely 
from the greater sins of wilfulness and presumption. 
The people of the Lord are to be a holy people ; holy 
in heart and holy in act ; " unblameable, and unre- 
provable in his sight. " These weighty considerations, 
my brethren, i£ I were uninfluenced by any other, 
would of themselves suffice to impel me to address you 
at this time on the subject of a duty to which, in one 



particular instance, — and an instance of the first im • 
portance — we have most of us been too long wholly 
inattentive. But there is also another consideration, 
independent of those I have now adverted to, which 
would strongly incline me to offer the same subject to 
your serious attention ; and that is, the possibility, at 
least, that some service however slender, may thereby 
be rendered to the victims of as grievous an oppression 
as this world of sin and suffering ever witnessed ; an 
oppression too, which the inhabitants of this land, 
whether they know it or not, are lending themselves 
to uphold ; while, by little more than the simple de- 
claration of their will, it might certainly, and speed- 
ily, be removed for ever. They who know this must 
be without excuse before God, if they fail to do all 
that in them lies, whether that all be little or much, 
to assert the injured rights of humanity and justice ? 
and they who know it not have need to be put in im- 
mediate possession of the truth, both for their own 
sakes, and for the sake of the unhappy beings whom 
their better information may then dispose them not 
merely to commiserate, but, as far as they are able,, to 
succour and relieve. 

The two subjects of inquiry, then, to which I 
■would earnestly beg your attention are these : First, 
Is it a demonstrable fact that there does exist under 
the sufferance, and the direct encouragement, of the 
people of this country, any such flagrant case of op- 
pression as that which has now been referred to ? — 
And, Second!]/, If it appear to be an incontrovertible 
fact, that such a case of oppression does exist, then, 
what is the line of conduct which, under present cir- 
cumstances, it becomes our duty to pursue ? 



In order to arrive at a just conclusion on the first 
of these inquiries, we must turn our eyes towards 
those regions of the western world where upwards of 
seven hundred thousand* of our fellow-subjects are 
held in a state of servile bondage by persons calling 
themselves their owners, and claiming in them the 
same right of property which they have in the chat- 
tels, of whatever kind, which they are legally and 
equitably possessed of. In entering on the nearer sur- 
vey of the extraordinary phenomenon presented to us 
in a state of things so directly at variance with every 
principle of the civil and religious institutions of this 
free and Christian country, it may be necessary to 
premise, that the system of Colonial Slavery is not 
precisely the same, in all respects, throughout the 
whole of the British dominions in Western India. In 
a few of the smaller islands, some of the harsher fea- 
tures of that system are, to a certain degree, softened 
and corrected, though still sufficiently marked with 
their original deformity to shock the feelings of every 
man not wholly insensible to the honour and the hap- 
piness of his species. Of these cases of partial mi- 
tigation more particular mention shall be made here- 
after. 

The description that will now be set before you of 
the generally prevailing character of the degrading 
bondage to which the great majority of the slave-po- 
pulation in our foreign Dependencies are to this day 
subjected, shall not be taken from the statements and 
representations of the adversaries of the system ; but 



* At the Cape, and the Mauritius, are above one hundred 
thousand more. 



from the statements and admissions of its avowed apo- 
logists and defenders. There can be no cause, there- 
fore, to apprehend that the portrait will be depicted 
under a more frightful form than that which properly 
belongs to it. To attempt to shade it in darker co- 
lours than its own were a needless task indeed ! 

From the concurrent testimony, then, of the friends 
and advocates of Colonial slavery, and from the dai- 
ly practices which they undertake to defend aud jus- 
tify, we find that the slaves are held to be the absolute 
property of their owners;* that they are considered 
in the light of mere instruments of profit, liable to be 
disposed of, and dealt by, in almost all respects, as 
the beasts of the field, for the benefit of their pos- 
sessors. I Like beasts they are, many of them, 
branded in different parts of their body with what- 
ever marks the caprice, or cruelty, of their masters 
may direct. | Like beasts they are exposed, either 
in lots or separately,! to public sale, without regard 
to the rending asunder any ties of consanguinity ; 
or to the anguish of soul which the unoffending vic- 
tims may endure, in being torn away for ever from 
the objects of their dearest affections. Like beasts 
they are made to work under the lash without wages,\ 
by night and by day ; and under the lash they may 
expire, with scarcely the remotest probability that 
the arm of justice will ever, in this world, overtake 
their murderers. || The value set upon their lives. 



* See note A. Appendix. 

% See the Colonian Gazettes, passim ; and particularly the 
Jamaica Royal Gazette from the 11th to the 18th of June, 1825. 
f See Note B. II See Note C. 



and the guilt incurred by the wilful destruction of 
them, are estimated, not on the principle which 
would recognize their participation in one common 
nature with the rest of mankind, viz. " Whoso shed- 
deth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed," 
(Gen. ix. 6,) but on a principle which regards them as 
an inferior order in the creation, raised but little, if 
at all, above the brutes, and but little more entitled 
than the brutes to the benefit of legal protection.^ 
In one of the Islands, || if a master stand fully con- 
victed of the crime of wilfully killing or destroying 
his own slave, his guilt is to be expiated by the pay- 
ment of a small pecuniary fine.* And, lest even 
this punishment should be too heavy for the venial 
offence he has committed, he is screened effectually 
against the infliction of it by the inadmissibility of 
slave- evidence against the privileged class he be- 
longs to.** If a thousand slaves were eye-witnesses 
of the barbarous violence which dismissed any o?:e 
of their fellows to an untimely grave, their testimony 
is not to be received against a white ; and therefore 
their brother's blood is left to cry to heaven for that 
avenging justice, the very shadow of which is denied 
to its cry on earth. And while these wretched out- 
casts from the pale of humanity are thus entirely de- 
pendent on the mercy of their owners, or of their 
owners' deputy, not for life onlv, but for much more 
than life, for exemption from long-protracted torture 
of body and of mind, their deliverance by manumis- 
sion, or by any other outlet than the grave, from this 

§ See Note D. || Bermuda. 

* See Note E. ** See Note C. 

b 3 



10 

most miserable state is obstructed* by a variety of 
burdensome and embarrassing regulations, established 
by those whose will is law, for the express purpose of 
perpetuating their bondage. And even after any of 
them have been actually and formally liberated, they 
are liable to be reduced to slavery again, % if they are 
not prepared, whenever called upon, to produce satis- 
factory proof of their having been raised to the rank 
of free men. 

Such, then, according to the statements and admis- 
sions of the defenders of Colonian slavery, is that far 
worse than Egyptian bondage under which nearly a 
million of our fellow-subjects are still groaning, un- 
helped, if not unpitied, by their happier brethren in 
this favoured land of freedom. The outline of the 
picture is not, indeed, complete : some further traits 
remain yet to be added to those we have now been 
contemplating : but, omitting them for the present, 
are we not irresistibly compelled to declare, even on 
the showing of the apologists and upholders of the 
system, that it is justly characterized by the impartial 
and accurate Paley, as " a dominion and system of 
laws, the most merciless and tyrannical that ever were 
tolerated upon the face of the earth. "f It is true, as 
I just nov/ remarked, that the system is not exactly 
the same in all points throughout the whole of the 
British Dependencies which its existence is permitted 
to disgrace. And it is true also, that the suppression 
of some of its most flagrant enormities has recently 



* See Note F. t See Note G, 

f Moral Philosophy, Book 3. Part 2. Chap. 3. 






11 

been forced on one\ of the Settlements by the peremp- 
tory orders of the Government of this country. But 
the sphere, to which this compulsory improvement has 
been restricted, is an exceedingly confined one ;§ the 
mass of the evil still continues uncorrected, and unre- 
moved : in the aggregate of its breadth, and depth, 
and length, and height, there is scarcely any percepti- 
ble diminution. At present it may be questioned 
whether its actual amount be not augmented, rather 
than diminished, by the defective measures of pallia- 
tion and experiment which have been adopted with a 
view to its abatement. The keen resentment of the 
resident Proprietors, at the curtailment of their un- 
limited power over their slaves, has led them to throw 
off all diguise, and proclaim the principle which is to 
direct their future treatment of these unhappy beings, 
in language that cannot be mistaken. "Recognized 
power," they say, " can afford to be liberal and mag- 
nanimous : disputed authority must necessarily be jea- 
lous and severe." In reference to the use of the driving 
whip as a stimulus to labour in the field, they say,f 
' * By those who have most considered the subject in 
this colony,* the use of the whip is believed to be 
identified with the existence of slavery. Changes," 
they affirm, " are always to be deprecated : especially 
in a Slave Colony, where" as they ingenuously con- 
fess, " the whole of the labouring population are de- 



X Trinidad ; containing only twenty-two thousand fire hun- 
dred slaves, in 1824. 
§ See Note H. 

f See the Trinidad Gazette of August, 1824. 
* Trinidad. 



If 

prived of their natural rights, and nothing but the 
force of habit, and a brutish, indistinct, idea of the 
superiority and fixed power of their masters, keep them 
in awe and subjection." They then go on to assert, 
and doubtless on the best authority, " that the lower 
order of slave-owners are racking their inventions to 
devise modes of punishment within the letter of the 
proclamation, to compel their Negroes to perform 
those services on which their means of subsistence 
entirely depend "% and which services, it might have 
been added, they are resolved never to allow to be 
performed by free men, until they are compelled to 
allow it by uncontrollable necessity* 

Such is the reception which the orders of the home 
Government have met with in a quarter where an 
Order in Council has the authority of law. And, in 
other quarters to which it was judged expedient, that 
recommendations only, and not commands, should be 
issued, with the same humane intention of meliorating 
the condition of the slave-population, those recom- 
mendations have been received with the same spirit of 
implacable hostility,* with superadded threats of de- 
termined resistance, if an Act of the supreme Legis- 
lature should convert the recommendations of Govern- 
ment into the law of the empire. We may judge for 
ourselves, therefore, how far any substantial benefits 
have as yet accrued, or are likely to accrue, to British 
Negro Slaves, from any thing which has yet been 
done to mitigate the rigours of their oppression. 

But, rigorous and inhuman as that oppression is> 



X Idem. 

* See Note I. 



13 

under every aspect in which it can be contemplated, 
the view of it, which, to the Christian mind, is be- 
yond all others, most fearfully apalling, is that which 
respects its influence on the eternal prospects of its 
ill-fated, helpless victims. Not only has no adequate 
provision been made for their moral and religious in- 
struction, but it is of the very essence of the system, 
under which they are held in bondage, to inure them 
to the practice of every vice, and to bar up every 
avenue of their souls against the admission of any sen- 
timent of virtue. § Even their patient endurance of 
wrongs, marvellous as it is in itself, is scarcely, in 
their abject circumstances, to be ranked as a virtue : 
it is rather the torpid sufferance of despair, yielding 
without a struggle to ills which are beyond a cure. 

That the Colonial Slaves are, generally speaking, 
left utterly destitute of religious instruction, is a truth 
too fully established to admit of the possibility of a 
doubt. 

Though we had not been assured of the fact by the 
repeated reference which is made to it in the orders and 
recommendations of Government,* and by the united 
testimony of the resident Ministers of the Established 
Church, in their answersf to the inquiries officially 
addressed to them ; and though we had not derived 
from any other source such precise information as 
should have been directly conclusive on the point, we 
might yet have been led to form a nearly correct opi- 
nion of the actual state of the case from the never to- 
be-forgotten declaration of the slave-holder, that " no- 

§ See Note K. 
• See Note L. + See Note M. 






14 

thing but a brutish, indistinct idea of the superiority 
and fixed power of their masters," conjoined with the 
force of habit, keep the slave- population " in awe and 
subjection." Can we believe that the slave-holder is 
himself so ignorant as not to know, that whatever 
advantage the accidents of climate, or mental culture, 
may have given the European over the African, still 
the brutish, indistinct, idea of the natural superiority 
of white men over black, must vanish as a morning 
cloud before the light of that religion which teaches, 
that God " hath made of one blood all the nations of 
men, for to dwell on all the face of the earth ?" (Acts 
xvii. 26.) And knowing this, is he likely to smooth 
the way for his debased and degraded bondsmen to 
attain to the possession of that elevating and holy 
faith, that common charter of our salvation, which re- 
cognizes no distinction between " barbarian, Scythian, 
bond, or free ?" While he deems that " the one thing 
needful," the one all-important object to which every 
other must be held subordinate, is to keep his wretch- 
ed thralls in awe and subjection, what else could be 
expected of him, but that he should endeavour to ob- 
struct, — as he does, — rather than to forward, their 
progress in the path of religious knowledge ; and 
should revile, and persecute, and if possible, expel 
from his shores, the zealous and devoted Missionary/' 
whose labours might impart to them the blessed light 
of the everlasting gospel, and thus raise them from 
their present brutified condition, to share in the en- 
nobling privileges of the children of the living God ? 
That no obstruction should be offered to the bapti- 

* See Note N. 



15 

tising of them by hundreds and by thousands,! so long 
as they are left in profound ignorance of all which 
the divine author of that holy rite came into the world 
to teach them, — this is conceivable enough. But, 
that they should be freely permitted to learn what are 
the exalted privileges which Christian baptism, right- 
ly administered and received, confers on those who 
are admitted to it ; — that they should be introduced to 
a full acquaintance with those sacred Oracles which 
would teach them what are the natural, inherent, in- 
defeasible rights of man, — rights which no human 
being can voluntarily surrender into the hands of ano- 
ther, without being a traitor to himself and to his God ; 
— what also his high destinies in eternity, if he be but 
faithful to the terms of the Christian covenant ; and 
what the guilt of those who degrade him to a level 
with the beasts, and make his " life bitter with hard 
bondage ;" — that the knowledge of these things should 
be allowed to be freely imparted to the injured race, 
whose disposition to submit patiently to their multipli - 
ed wrongs and oppressions is held to be in direct pro- 
portion to the depth of their ignorance, would be a 
most extraordinary circumstance indeed. 

We see, then, it is no more than might have been 
naturally expected, that the bulk of the slave popula- 
tion in the British Colonies should be as effectually 
cut off from all Christian instruction, from all religious 
knowledge, from all acquaintance with that " only 
name under heaven given among men whereby we 
must be saved," as if they were living in the still un- 
explored recesses of the land from whence they were, 

f See Note O, 



16 

by British hands, nefariously and basely stolen,f And, it 
jt be some relief to the mind to know, that the feeling 
on the part of the master which would thus induce himtv) 
chain down his unhappy slave in the eternal darkness 
of heathenism, is not universally prevalent in these 
regions of cruelty and wickedness, but that there are 
individual proprietors to be met with, who, highly to 
their honour, not only tolerate, but encourage mis- 
sionary exertions amongst their Negroes, yet, when 
we think how opposite is the general practice, and 
what, as the consequence of it, is the dreadful state i£ 
the mass of the slave-population, how can we lav 
claim to one single spark of human sympathy, or 
Christian faith, if our hearts be not moved within us, 
at the view of their most calamitous, and awful cir- 
cumstances ? True it is, the Judge of all the earth 
will deal with them hereafter according to unerring 
principles of righteousness and equity ; true, that he 
will never condemn them for involuntary blindness : 
nor for the transgression of a law with which they 
were not, and could not be, acquainted. But, since 
it is no less certainly declared on the authority of 
God's unchangeable word, that ' * without holiness no 
man shall see the Lord;" that, "as many as have 
sinned without law, shall also perish without law £-J 
and that nothing which defileth, or worketh abomina- 
tion, shall enter within the gates of that holy city, 
which is lightened by the glory of the Lord, where 
can we look for any reasonable ground of hope, that 
the miserable beings, whom a merciless oppression, 
seconded by an emulous rivalry in impurity and pro- 

t See Note P. J Romans ii. 12. 



17 

fligacy, consigns over, body and soul, to the uncon- 
trolled dominion of every sinful lust and passion, will 
lie compensated by the happiness of their future con- 
dition for the accumulated wrongs and sufferings 
which have been their portion here on earth ? Strive 
as we may to hope even against hope, (Rom. iv. 18,) 
yet, alas ! we know but too surely, that the hope 
which rests not on the basis of God's word is likely 
to vanish at last as an unsubstantial day-dream — to 
^v isit our fond imagination no more again for ever. 

And now, my Christian Brethren, when we think 
on these things, are sorrow and commiseration the 
only emotions that should be excited in our breast ? 
Is there no cause for self- reproach ? — none for shame, 
humiliation, and repentance ? Have we not, as a peo- 
ple, been verily guilty concerning our brother, in that 
we might have seen the anguish of his soul,* and 
have helped him ; and did not ? If it was the 
general expression of the abhorrence conceived by 
this nation against the barbarous iniquity of the slave- 
trade, that put an end, so many years ago, to that 
desolating scourge of humanity, — so far at least as 
this country was concerned in it, — why should not the 
same means have been long since employed to deli- 
ver us from the guilt of still holding in captivity the 
victims of that flagitious traffic ; and of cruelly con- 
demning their offspring, from the very moment of 
their birth, to the wretched condition of their parents ? 
The truth is, that from the time of the abolition of 
the horrid traffic in human flesh and blood, on the part 
of Great Britain and her foreign Dependencies, most 

• Gen. xiii. 21. 



18 

of the people of this country seem to have gone to 
sleep on the subject ; to have contentedly wrapt 
themselves up, for.eighteen years, in a sort of dreaming 
ignorance, or forgetfulness, of the deep and lasting 
misery left by that commerce, as a*parting legacy, to 
eight hundred thousand of our unfortunate fellow-sub- 
jects, and to have entirely overlooked the fact that 
their right to a full participation in all the benefits of 
our free and happy constitution, is, on every principle 
of impartial justice, as good as our own. If the moral 
responsibility of a nation be involved in the moral cha- 
racter of the acts of its Government, we must all of us, 
in our collective capacity, share in the guilt of so long 
tolerating and upholding a heinous system of oppres - 
sion, which, but for the wonderful forbearance and 
long-suffering of our God, w T ould ere now have drawn- 
down upon us the heaviest visitations of his avenging 
justice. As far as the plea of individual ignorance 
may be admissible, they certainly, and only they, can 
be entitled to the benefit of it, who can honestly de- 
clare, as in the sight of Him who readeth their hearts, 
— Never did we know, nor even imagine it possible, 
that any of the subjects of the British empire, in any 
part of the world, were thus " bound in fetters, and 
holden in cords of affliction;" (Job xxxvi. 8;) and 
had we known it, the first thought of our hearts 
would have been, Is there any thing on earth that we 
can do towards effecting their deliverance ? If there 
be, we will not lose an instant in setting our shoulders 
to the work. 

That this declaration may be made with perfect sin- 
cerity and truth by numbers of persons who were yet 
in the early days of life w r hen the slave-trade was abo- 



19 

lished, is a reflection in which, no doubt, there is 
much of consolation. Their attention having never 
since been particularly directed to the evils of Colo- 
nial slavery — except perhaps, very recently, — we 
trust that their ignorance on the subject may be con- 
sidered to have been involuntary, and, therefore, that 
we may be permitted to say, in reference to their pe- 
culiar case, as was said by the Apostle Paul, (Acts 
xvii. 30,) in reference to the errors of the unenlight- 
ened heathen, ' ' the times of this ignorance God wink- 
ed at : but now," now that the vail which covered 
the habitations of cruelty has been drawn aside, — now 
that the system of oppression, w^hich this guilty nation 
has so long sanctioned and upheld, has been disclosed, 
though in distant prospect only, to their view, — "" now 
God commandeth all men," both those who have sin- 
ned through ignorance, and those who " have no 
cloak for their sin," <f to repent; now he chargeth 
them all, as they hope for mercy themselves, to show 
mercy to their afSicted brethren — to listen to the cry 
of the distressed — to "remember them that are in 
bonds as bound with them ; and them which suffer 
adversity, as being themselves also in the body," 
(Heb. xiii. 3.) ■- 

If then, my Brethren, we begin to feel, at last, on 
this important subject in any degree as w T e ought, we 
shall be prepared to inquire, not in a negligent and 
cursory way, but with deep and serious interest, — 
What is the particular line of conduct which, under 
present circumstances, it becomes our duty to pursue } 

The first step which naturally presents itself to our 
mind, as the best we can take towards the rendering 
any aid to our much-injured brethren, the British 



20 

Negroes, is to join in earnestly petitioning the Impe- 
rial Parliament to restore them to the \ sssession of 
their natural rights, and to the equal protection of the 
laws of the empire, at the earliest moment in which it 
can be done consistently with a due regard to their 
safety and welfare. That some very power] ul obstruc- 
tion* or other must hitherto have opposed itself to 
the consummation of the great work of justice and 
humanity on which his Majesty's Government have 
been seen to enter within the last thre. 4 years, is 
proved to demonstration by the simple fail, that the 
progress which has been made in all that time, has 
been next to none. If therefore, there were barely a 
possible chance that the petitions of the people would 
assist, as I fully believe they will, in the lemoval of 
this obstruction, whatever be the nature of it, that 
alone were reason enough why such petition*- should 
be presented from every place in the kingdom. 

Next to the performance of this duty, we lrust feel 
that we are called upon to do all in our powei 1 owards 
the diffusing of information throughout thai large 
body of our fellow-countrymen who are yet entirely in 
the dark as to the real nature of West India slavery, 
and the actual condition of the Negroes. VVlun this 
darkness shall be dispelled, it were a libel on the cha- 
racter of the country to doubt, that its voice \a ill be 
heard from one end of the kingdom to the other, de- 
manding a suppression of an order of things so inju- 



* If the reader desire to be informed on the real nature of 
these obstructions, he will find it clearly stated at pp. ( 3, 64, 
of " England Enslaved by her own Slave Colonies." By 
James Stephen, Esq. 



21 

rious to the nation's honour, so repugnant to the spirit 
of Christianity, and so utterly at variance with the 
fundamental principles of the British constitution. 
With a view, then lo the disseminating, as extensively 
as possible, amongst all classes of the community, the 
information they aie so much in need of, we should 
lend our support to one or other of the Associations 
which have recently been established for that purpose 
more especially, tl ough aiming to forward the cause 
of Negro emancipation by any other means which may 
be judged further conducive to the attainment of their 
object. Neither should we be unmindful to use every 
proper opportunity for directing the attention of our 
friends and acquaintance to the same momentous sub- 
ject, referring them to such authentic and accessible 
sources of information as we may know to be of the 
most decisive a-id comineing character. 

We must also remember, that justice, as well as 
charity, loudly demands, that we contribute, as far as 
we are able, to the immediate alleviation of the suf- 
ferings which many of the unhappy beings, whom we 
have helped to keep in slavery, are enduring, in addi- 
tion to their usually allotted portion, from being turned 
adrift by their owners to provide for themselves, when 
old age, or incurable diseases, and infirmities, have 
rendered them no longer serviceable. This act of jus- 
tice and of charity, you may perform, my Brethren, — 
if God incline your hearts to do so, — through the 
agency of certain benevolent individuals, who have 
been employed for some years past, in a few of the 
islands, in dispensing to the afflicted creatures thus 
cruelly abandoned to their fate, the relief, and conso- 
lation, which from no other quarter could they ever 



22 



have received, or hoped for.f Were I to describe to 
you one of these cases of heart-rending misery and 
distress, in the plain, unembellished language in which 
I have seen it narrated in a verified copy of the origi- 
nal communications, you would conceive a far greater 
horror than you possibly can have done from any 
thing you have heard this day, of the dreadful influ- 
ence of the slave-system in depraving, and hardening 
the human heart to a degree which is scarcely within 
the bounds of credibility, or conception. But though 
I am well aware how much more forcibly the mind 
may be impressed by the statement of a single fact, 
than by dwelling, at whatever length, on general de- 
tails, and though there is nothing I more earnestly 
desire than that the impression made on your minds 
at this time may be not less deep and lasting, than 
just and reasonable, yet I have not allowed myself 
to harrow up your feelings by the recital of particular 
instances of cruelty selected out of the long, though 
still defective catalogue with which the dark records 
of Colonial Slavery supply us. Many of them, indeed, 
are of a description so terrible, and so revolting, that 
not only would it be a profanation of this house of 
God to let the sound of them be heard within its walls, 
— not only would it be a violation of all propriety to 
speak of them in any place before a mixed assembly, 
but I seriously profess to you, that if, waving these 
considerations, I were to enter on the narration of 
some of the deeds of darkness I refer to, I think it 
more than probable that sense, and hearing, would 
forsake many of those to whom I am now speaking, 
before the half were told them. 

f See Note Q, 



And yet, who is there of us all that has not, either 
unwittingly, or advisedly, given his support to the 
system which is the prolific parent of these atrocious 
crimes ? For, is it not an indisputable truth, that 
they who partake of the productions which the labour 
of the slave supplies, do ail help together to rivet his 
fetters, — by encouraging, and enabling, his master to 
retain him in captivity ? If in this free country there 
were no consumers of the produce of slave-labour, the 
importation of such produce must soon cease to pol- 
lute our shores. If, then, by partaking of the fruits 
of oppression, we directly contribute to its continued 
existence, can we possibly exculpate ourselves from 
the charge of being " partakers of other men's sins?" 
There is but one imaginable way in which, as it ap- 
pears to me, any consistent Christian can justify to 
himself the use of any article of consumption v/hich 
comes to him at such a frightful cost of human suffer- 
ing, and of almost super-human wickedness. If he 
have taken up the idea, that the decreased consump- 
tion of the produce of the toil and suffering of the 
slaves would but still further enhance their misery, 
by the reflex operation of the embarrassment it might 
occasion to their owners, so long as this opinion has 
possession of his mind, his conscience may be at 
peace : but, it is a peace which is founded on error. 
With very few exceptions, the slaves in the British 
settlements are supplied with food, not by their own- 
ers, nor by any payment received from them, but, by 
the cultivation of certain allotments of ground which 
they are allowed some scanty pittance of time to work 
in ; though they are not allowed to raise on them 



24 

Buch crops as would return them the best profit.f 
Now, it can never be supposed that the master would 
deprive them of their allotment of land, merely be- 
cause land had become of less value to himself, 
through the reduced demand for its produce. Neither 
can we imagine, that he would rob them of their time, 
merely because he had less occasion for it than former- 
ly, and would derive less profit from its employment 
in his service. The slave, therefore, having his bind 
and his time, as before, to provide for his own sap- 
port, would evidently benefit, and not suffer, by a 
decreased demand for the produce of his uncompei sa- 
ted toil. It has, in fact, been almost invariably found, 
that the depression of prices has improved the coi idi- 
tion of the slave-population ; whereas, whenever pri- 
ces have been high, their sufferings have increased, 
and the waste of slave -life, — as the destruction of the 
human animal by overworking him is softly termed in 
Colonial language — the waste of slave-life has advan- 
ced in an equal ratio. § 

But even if some temporary inconvenience, some 
present augmentation of evil, were to be brought 
upon any of the slaves from the decreased demand 
for the produce of their labour, — and it is freely ad- 
mitted, that such a result may, in some few instances, 
not be impossible, — still, for the sake of attaining the 
incalculable blessings which must finally, and speedily 
result to them from the general disuse of all produc- 
tions but those which are raised by the hands of free 
men, the temporary evil should be no more regarded 
than the slight pain of any momentary operation, 

t See Note R. § See Note S. 






25 

which would restore a diseased limb to health and 
soundness. That the slave-holder must ultimately 
enfranchise his bondsman, if no sufficient vent can 
be found for slave-grown produce, is as perfectly cer- 
tain, as it is, that the master would, in every way, be 
benefited by the change in an almost equal degree 
with the slave himself, f 

On the review, then, of the whole matter, what, T 
would ask, shall we be prepared to allege in our de- 
fence before the Judge of all the earth, if we do not 
endeavour, by every means in our power, to break the 
iron yoke of their bondage from off the neck of our 
brethren, and let the oppressed go free ? Shall we say 
as Cain did, " Am I my brother's keeper ?" Shall 
we pass by, like the Priest and the Levite, on the 
other side ; that we may not look on the wounds 
which we are determined not to attempt to heal ? 
Shall we plead the distance of the scene of his suffer- 
ings, and his wrongs, as a reason for not attending 
to the voice of his complaint ? Hear, then, the suc- 
cess which may be expected to attend a line of defence 
like this, before the tribunal of the God of righte- 
ousness and truth. " If thou forbear" — it is written 
— "to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and 
those that are ready to be slain;" — and there is a 
slaying of the soul, be it remembered, as well as of its 
earthly tenement — " if thou sayest, Behold, we knew 
it not : — doth not he that pondereth the heart, consi- 
der it ? and shall not he render unto every man ac- 
cording to his works ?"* Surely, my Brethren, this 

f See Note T. 

* Proverbs xxiv. 11—12 






26 

should make us careful how we dismiss this subject 
lightly from our thoughts, or content ourselves with 
contributing nothing but our pity towards the deliver- 
ance of more than eight hundred thousand of our fel- 
low creatures out of the merciless hand of their op- 
pressors. 

An excessive timidity, perhaps, may whisper, that 
to remain still inactive were the safer, and the wiser 
course ; lest the measures we adopt should have the 
effect of goading to redoubled opposition those whom 
it should, by all means, be our object, not to irritate, 
but to conciliate. That such an effect should follow 
from the efforts of the Abolitionists, would indeed, be 
a circumstance greatly to be regretted. We lament 
that the mistaken views of the slave-owners, should 
occasion them painful sensations of any kind. We are 
sincerely desirous, that their interest, as well as the 
interest of their slaves should be secured and advanc- 
ed, as no doubt it will be, by the final extinction of 
West India Slavery. But, with respect to the re- 
tarding of the great work of Negro Emancipation by 
the cause now alluded to, there may be good reason 
for thinking, that the friends of humanity have at 
least as much to hope, as to fear, from those blind 
sallies of excited feeling which prompt to indiscretions 
directly subversive of the object which the irritated 
parties are aiming to accomplish. But, however this 
may be, if Oppression cannot be made to relax its 
hold, without being inflamed with anger against those 
who would rescue its helpless victim from its grasp,* 
I trust they are prepared to say, — We have counted 
the cost, and are content to abide the issue. 

t See Note U. 



27 

As a further plea for contentedly leaving our en- 
slaved fellow- subjects in bondage for a yet indefinite 
period, it is sometimes said, that the happy consum- 
mation the Abolitionists are so impatient to accelerate, 
would more surely be attained by the gradual progress 
of civilization ; — that something may perhaps be done 
by carefully educating the children of the Negroes, 
and by using the proper means to impart to the whole 
of the slave -population a due portion of religious and 
moral instruction ; but, it is insisted — and this is all 
that the most determined opponent of abolition need 
desire to have conceded to him — it is insisted, that at 
all events, " the emancipation of the mind ought in- 
variably to precede that of the body."f What un- 
feeling mockery is this ! As if it were possible for 
the mind of a free man to grow up in the bosom of a 
slave, — brand-marked, perhaps, and scarred by the 
wounds of ignominious fetters, — without killing him 
with lingering torture, in thinking of the depth to 
which he has been degraded beneath the level of his 
fellow men ! 

Then, as to any general improvement to be effected 
in the moral character and habits of the Slaves by the 
help of Schools and Churches, — when it shall be pos- 
sible to restore a sick man to health by the use of any 
outward applications, while we go on feeding him 
with the poison which is the cause of his malady, and 
is circulating with the current of life through every 
vein and artery, carrying disease and anguish to the 
remotest fibre of his frame, then, and not before, may 
we expect to see the slave-population of our Colonies 
generally benefited by moral and religious instruction, 

f Quarterly Review, No. 64, p. 352. 
c 2 



28 

while the baneful influence of the slave-system there 
established is permitted to counteract its efficay.* 
That system is an evil for which no remedy can be 
found, short of its utter extirpation. No moral health 
can ever, by any possibility, exist amongst the aggre- 
gate either of masters or slaves, while so fatal a pest as 
this pervades and vitiates the whole frame of society. 
' ' The whole head is sick ; and the whole heart is 
faint. From the sole of the foot even unto the crown 
of the head, there is no soundness in it ; but wounds, 
and bruises, and putrifying sores." (Isaiah i. 5, 6.) 

It is for want of attention to this incontrovertible 
truth, that many persons very friendly to the cause of 
ultimate abolition, allow their minds to be led away 
from the steady straight- forward pursuit of that great 
object, into by-paths of shifting expedients, of mere 
temporizing plans and projects, certainly tardy in 
operation, but most uncertain and doubtful in effica- 
cy. With whomsoever such projects may originate, 
and whatever be their real design, they are most of 
them calculated to answer little other end than to put 
aside for an indefinite length of time the all-important 
measure of emancipation, and to lull its friends and 
advocates into a soft slumber of security, from which 
it mav not be found such an easy task hereafter to 
awaken them. An opiate of this kind is the plausible 
plan I have been remarking upon for the moral and re- 
ligious instruction of the slaves. That every thing 
ought to be done which can be done towards christi- 
anizing that unhappy race of beings, even while yet 
retained in bondage, is a point on which we are, no 
doubt, all of us entirely agreed. But, to say, that 

* See Note V. 



29 

we should be content to see them doomed to remain 
in their present state of slavery till Christian educa- 
tion and instruction shall have transformed them into 
good moral and religious characters, is to betray great 
ignorance indeed, either of human nature, or of Colo- 
nial Slavery, as it exists both in law and in practice. 
For, in the first place, with whatever sincerity the 
intellectual and moral improvement of the slave- po- 
pulation may be desired by the West India Proprie- 
tors resident in this country, many of whom are known 
to be men of humane and benevolent feelings, and all 
of whom, or nearly all, are said to have concurred in 
those moderate recommendations of Government to 
the local Legislatures, which have stirred up so vio- 
lent a flame of opposition in the Western Hemisphere, 
yet, since it is an indisputable fact, that the Planters 
and Managers, resident in the Colonies have, with 
few exceptions, always looked with an evil eye, on any 
attempt to elevate the Negro character from its un- 
natural debasement, by engrafting on it the knowlege 
and principles of Christianity, how much more likely 
will they be to resist, and to thwart by every means 
in their power, any attempt of the kind which it is 
now proposed to make for the avowed and express 
purpose of the more speedily rescuing out of their 
hands the captives whom they have declared their de- 
termination to retain their hold of, at whatever hazard, 
to the latest moment possible ? 

But, these considerations apart, with what reason- 
able hope of success, under the present order of things, 
is a Christian Teacher to inculcate on the minds of 
the slaves the practice of the several religious and so- 
cial duties enjoined in the Holy Scriptures ? If he 



. _-. 



30 

begin by teaching them, that their first duty is to 
worship their Creator in public and in private, and to 
honour his word by yielding obedience to his com- 
mands, may not most of them reply, — But how is it 
possible for us to join in public worship, so long aa 
the sabbath, instead of being to us a day of religious 
rest from labour, is a day of ceaseless toil or traffic ; 
and so long as the labour exacted from us by our task- 
masters, by night as well as by day during five or six 
months in the year,* is such as not to leave us time 
enough even to refresh our wearied limbs with need- 
ful rest and sleep ? And as to yielding obedience in 
other things to God's commands, which of them all 
dare we refuse to transgress, if we are ordered to do 
so by those whose orders it were as much as our 
lives are worth to dispute for one moment ? 

If, next, it be attempted to teach them, that it is 
the duty of every Christian, " to be true and just in 
all his dealings, — to keep his hands from picking and 
stealing, and his tongue from lying," &c. is it to be 
supposed they will easily be convinced, that it is a 
crime in them to commit petty depredations on those 
by whom they themselves have been robbed of their 
dearest rights and privileges ; — on those who purcha- 
ed them of men-stealers, knowing them to be stolen ; 
and, who, when they had so purchased them, stripped 
them, as far as it was possible, of every attribute of 
man which can distinguish him from the beasts of the 
stall ? And then, with respect to the sacred obliga- 
tions of truth, can it be expected that a slave should 
•how an inviolable respect for them, at times when his 

* Viz. in Crop-time 



31 

qnly hope of escaping the dreaded tortures of the lash 
is, that he may be able to deceive his oppressor by 
a lie ? 

If again they are addressed on the subject of moral 
purity and virtue, on the sanctity of the marriage 
vow, on the duties which the unmarried, of both sexes, 
owe unto themselves, — that they preserve a character 
untarnished by the guilt of illicit intercourse either 
amongst their own class, or with their superiors, — 
that nothing loose or wanton should ever be allowed 
to appear either in their words or actions, but that 
they should constantly demean themselves as persons 
who had renounced all the sinful lusts of the flesh, and 
had been called with a holy calling to follow a holy 
Lord -, how can it ever be imagined that such admo- 
nitions as these would be listened to and obeyed, 
while the marriages of the slaves are protected by no 
legal sanction, while the wife may be torn from her 
husband,f and the daughter from her parents ; and 
while there is nothing to prevent the dissolute and li- 
centious Overseer from enforcing compliance with his 
desires by the influence of terror, or the actual inflic- 
tion of torment ?- But, supposing for a moment that 
this brutal and too common mode of seduction were 
refrained from, still, if the strongest safe-guard of fe- 
male virtue, next to religious principle, be a feeling of 
self-respect, united to the dread of public scorn,, how 
it it possible for this safe- guard to be found amongst 
unhappy females who are subjected, for every trifling 
fault, or without any fault at all, to receive the most 
degrading and indecent punishment in the open face 

t See Note W, 



32 

of day, and in the sight of the other sex ? To think 
of inspiring the mind of a female, doomed to this mi- 
serable and abject state, with the sentiments and feel- 
ings which might be expected to inhabit her bosom, if 
protected from outrage and insult, by the laws and 
usages of civilized society, what were this, — even sup- 
posing it a practicable achievement — but to add ten- 
fold bitterness to the dregs of her cup of misery, 
which, without any stretch of imagination, we may 
conceive to be bitter enough already ?• 

But if, in the last place, the Christian Teacher or 
Catechist should proceed, according to the excellent 
formulary of instruction provided by our Church, to 
impress on the minds of his charge their incumbent 
obligation " to learn and labour, truly to get their own 
living, and to do their duty in that state of life unto 
which it has pleased God to call them," in what a la- 
byrinth of inextricable confusion would he immediate- 
ly find himself involved ! The duty of a subject to his 
sovereign, or of hireling to his employer, is intelli- 
gible and definable. But, who shall undertake to de- 
fine the duty of a Negro slave to his master ? On 
what principles would ) ou endeavour to convince him, 
that the man who bought him of the man who stole 
him, has a good and valid title to his dutiful obedi- 
ence ? Though it be but a few years ago that the 
traffic in human flesh and blood was made piracy by 
the law of these realms, yet there never was a time 
when it was not piracy by the laws of nature and of 
God. And, therefore, if the British slave-holder have 
a right to the obedience of his slave, it is a right 
founded on the commission of an acknowleged wrong ; 
a wrong which ought always to have, exposed its per- 



33 

petrators, as it would now expose them, to the penal- 
ty of an ignominious death. But, in what way it is 
to be shown, that such a right as this should bind the 
conscience to obedience, and make the performance of 
the exacted task a moral and religious duty, is a prob- 
lem which I must leave to be solved by those who 
are able to persuade themselves, that Colonial slavery 
is not repugnant to the principles, and precepts, of the 
religion of Jesus Christ. Supposing, however, that 
the first difficulty, which thus presents itself on the 
very threshhold of the attempt to teach a slave his du- 
ty to his master, could in some way or other be sur- 
mounted, a second, of no less formidable aspect, im- 
mediately rises up behind it. For, he is next to be 
told, that the services he is to perform, for those who 
claim him as their property, are to be performed with- 
out any feeling of dissatisfaction or reluctance, as ne- 
cessarily appertaining to that " state of life unto which 
it hath pleased God to call him " and in which, there- 
fore, he ought to be perfectly contented to remain ! 
Here, again, into what a wide and trackless sea of 
doubt, perplexity, and confusion, does the Christian 
instructor of slaves find himself embarked, without 
chart or compass to direct his course, or a single star 
in heaven to steer by ! Can he conscientiously believe, 
and teach, that it is the duty of any man living to rest 
contented in a state which deprives him of his fret 
agency : and in which, moreover, he is almost irresis- 
tibly impelled, in certain instances, to yield obedience 
to the commands of a fellow-creature in opposition to 
the commands of his Creator ? Can any one passage? 
of Scripture be produced, from Genesis to Revelation 
which, without '" handling the word of God deceit 
c3 



34 

fully," can be construed into the inculcating, or the 
sanctioning of such an opinion, — I had almost said 
— such an impious opinion, as this ? And then, as to 
its being the pleasure of the common Father of man- 
kind, that hundreds of thousands of his creature* 
should be fixed in this dreadful state of moral and 
mental degradation, — to say nothing, at this time, of 
the physical evils inseparably attending on it, this 
surely were an idea too monstrous to find admission, 
for an instant, into the mind of any one who knows 
how impossible it is for the God of righteousness and 
mercy, to be pleased with injustice, inhumanity, and 
crime. That the Supreme Ruler does, for reasons to 
us unfathomable, permit this state of things to exist, 
— as he permits the existence of all other moral and 
natural evil in the world, — is indeed, an evident and 
palpable truth. But, the religious instructor of our 
enslaved fellow- subjects in the British Colonies must 
be careful how he explains to them, in reference to 
their own case, the difference between the permission 
and the appointment of an over-ruling Providence. 
He is, indeed, placed in a situation beset with difficul- 
ties on every side ; a situation which is, altogether as 
pitiably embarassing as it is possible for the mind to 
conceive. While truth impels him one way, expedi- 
ency drags him another. And if, at last, he can re- 
concile it to his conscience not to impart to his sable 
hearers the whole counsel of God, not to introduce 
them, on equal terms with the rest of mankind, to the 
knowledge of that divine revelation which was de- 
signed by its blessed Author to be free as the light of 
heaven unto all who should be willing to possess it ; 
if he can do this, and can also bring himself to be- 



lieve, that it is incumbent on him to satisfy the minds 
of the enslaved Negroes, that they ought to rest con- 
tented in the wretched and abject condition they are 
held in> as being that which it is God's pleasure to al- 
lot to them, the arduous task to which he must ad- 
dress himself, in gaining their assent to this doctrine, 
will have this peculiarly adverse circumstance attend- 
ing it, — that the clearer the perception, the stronger 
the intellect, the more improved the faculties, of those 
whom he is labouring to convince of the justice of his 
position, the more difficult will he always find it to 
make them understand, or receive, his sayings. 

Such, then, is the success that may reasonably be 
expected to follow from the attempt to improve, and 
elevate, the character of the slaves in the British Co- 
lonies by the help of moral and religious instruction, 
while the present demoralizing and unchristian system 
of slavery is there permitted to exert its opposing in- 
fluence. And if, from this cheerless prospect, we turn 
our eyes to another quarter, and look for happier re- 
sults from the measures of melioration which we would 
fain believe may be provided by legislative enactment, 
here also we are met by the unwelcome truth, that 
any attempts which have yet been made in this way 
to correct the inherent vices of the system have proved, 
generally, impotent and abortive. Of the laws which 
have been enacted by the local legislatures for this os- 
tensible purpose the real object appears, in most in- 
stances, to have been the same with that which the 
Governor of Dominica ascribes to an Act passed in 
that island, before the abolition of the slave-trade, 
•* for the encouragement, protection, and better go- 



S6 

vernment of slaves." This Act," he says,* " appears 
" to have been considered, from the day it was passed 
until this hour,]: as a political measure to avert the in- 
terference of the mother country in the management of 
the slaves." We are informed on the same authority, 
that the clauses of this Act, which had given a pro- 
mise of better days, " had been wholly neglected.''' 
This need occasion us no surprise at all ; for, " there 
is something," says a distinguished individual, whose 
opinion on such a subject is entitled to be listened to 
with no common attention — " there is something in 
the nature of absolute authority, in the relation be- 
tween master and slave, which makes despotism in all 
cases, and under all circumstances, an incompetent 
and unsure executor even of its own provisions in fa- 
vour of the objects of its power.' 'j 

But, if this essential feature in the character of 
despotism renders it hopeless that the West India 
slaves will ever be materially benefited by any Acts of 
the Colonial legislatures, there is also a most serious, 
if not an insuperable, obstacle in the way of any effec- 
tual melioration of their condition by any legislative 
enactments passed for that end by the Parliament of 
this country, and that is, the want of suitable agents, 
who both can, and will, see such enactments carried 
into full effect, while the parties who are to appeal to 
them for protection remain in the condition of slaves. § 
And thus, on whichever side we view the system cf 
West India Slavery, the same truth is still forced on 
our conviction, viz. that its evils are far too great 

* See Note X X An interval of Six yea rs 

f See Note Y. § See Note Z . 



37 

and too deeply seated, to be dealt with only in the 
way of remedial treatment and regulation ; and that 
its total extinction, at the very earliest moment in 
which it may be accomplished with due regard to the 
well-being of the slaves, and to the safety of the free 
inhabitants of the colonies > is the point to which the 
united efforts of the people of this country should 
be steadily and perseveringly d irected. 

By the gratitude, then, which we owe to God for 
our own undeserved enjoyment of the unnumbered 
blessings of freedom ; — by the sincerity of the prayers 
and intercessions we are continually offering up for 
the "desolate and oppressed ;" — by our regard for 
the future, and eternal, happiness of the miserable 
captives for whose salvation, despised as they are of 
men, the Son of God poured forth his precious blood 
upon the cross ; by the Christian concern we feel for 
the awfully perilous state of the souls of the Oppres- 
sors themselves, living, as they do, where sin and 
vice riot in the wantonness of uncontrolled dominion ; 
— by all these affecting considerations, and by many, 
many more, which the want of time will not permit 
me now to advert to, we are all of us solemnly called 
upon to do what we can to break the yoke of their 
bondage from off the necks, of that unhappy people, — 
' scattered and peeled, meted out, and trodden down," 
— from the cry of whose distress we have too long 
turned away our ear. 

This call of duty, I would fain hope that none of 
us shall refuse to hear and to obey. But, should it 
unhappily be otherwise, it may still be permitted me 
to reflect, with some small degree of comfort, that at 
least my feeble endeavours have not been wanting to 



S8 

impart to those who have now heard me, such a mea- 
sure of acquaintance with the truth as may enable 
them to judge for themselves what is the course 
which, on Christian principles, they are required to 
follow and adhere to. 

I pray God their conduct may be such as to leave 
them nothing to fear, either now or hereafter, — in re - 
ference to this particular point of duty, — from that 
weighty declaration of the Apostle, — " to him that 
knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is 
sin." (James iv. 17.) " Consider," my Christian 
Brethren, what I say ; and the Lord give you under- 
standing in all things." (2 Tim. ii. 7.) Amen. 



APPENDIX. 



Note A. page 8. 

The Court of policy in Demerara declare, that in that Co- 
lony "the interest of an owner in his slave is that of fee- 
simple absolute;" — that " slaves are" there " chattels as much 
as any other moveable property :" — that "to give to the slave 
the right of purchasing himself, against the will and consent 
of bis owner, will annihilate the right of the owner, and con- 
fer on the slave a power which no other person possesses." 
See page 43 of "The slave colonies of Great Britain ; or, a 
Picture of Negro Slavery, drawn by the Colonists themselves ;** 
being an Abstract of the various Papers recently laid before 
Parliament on that subject. 

To the same effect, the Preamble of an Act of the Legisla- 
ture of Bermuda, imposing a penalty of Ten Pounds (currency) 
on the wilful murder of a slave by his owner, recites that, 
" Whereas Negroes are no otherwise valued or esteemed 
amongst us than as our goods and chattels, or other personal 
estate : therefore," &c. &c. " Second Report of the Society 
for the Mitigation and Gradual Abolition of Slavery." Pago 
144. 

Note B. page 8. 

If proof be required, that the slaves work without wagee, 
see pp. 23, 24, of " Notes on the present condition of the Ne- 
groes in Jamaica :" by H. T. De La Beche, Esq, F. R. S. — 



40 

This gentleman is the proprietor of a sugar estate in Jamaica, 
where he resided from March 1823, to December 1824. From 
the same' authority we learn, that " the. most common mode 
of calling the Jamaica Negroes to their labour, is by the crack* 
ing>of the driver's whip.'" Page 18. Mr. De La Beche says, 
he has abolished the u»e of it, as a stimulus to labour, on his 
own estate. With respect to night-work, he says, page 7, 
" During crop-time, which generally lasts about four months," 
foften, five,) " the Negroes are, in consequence of being com- 
paratively few on this estate, divided into two spells, which 
relieve each other every twelve hours, viz. at noon and mid- 
night, thus allowing half the night for work, and half for rest 
during five days in the week ; — and, query, is not this " be- 
sides being fully occupied in the various occupations of the 
plantation during the day ?" — viz. the one spell, from six in 
the morning till noon ; and the other, from noon till six in 
the evening ? See " Facts Illustrative of the Condition of the 
Negro Slaves in Jamaica," p 3. Mr. De La Beche says addi- 
tional labour is required of the Negroes in crop time, viz. that 
of the night," pp.7, 8; and therefore, more than twelve hours 
out of twenty-four ; though it seems to be intimated in the 
above statement, that the two spells of the Halse Hall Negroes 
worked but twelve hours each. Women still work under the 
whip as well as men. Colonists' own " Picture," &c. pp. 19. 
23. 97. 98. 

Note C. page 8. 

As long ago as the year 1793, Mr. Bryan Edwards said, "The 
great, and I fear incurable defect in the system of slavery, is 
the circumstance already mentioned, that the evidence of the 
slave cannot be admitted against a white person, even in cases 
of the most atrocious injury. This is an evil to which on 
several accounts, I fear no direct and efficacious remedy can be 
applied." Page 140 of vol. ii. of "The History, Civil and 
Commercial, of the British Colonies in the West Indies." 

The late Sir William Young, — like Mr. Edwards, a planter, 
and an opponent of the abolition of the slave trade, — said, in 
the year 1811," When the intervention of the law is most 



4L 

required, it will have the least effect ; as in cases where a 
vindictive and cruel master has dared to commit the most 
atrocious cruelties, even to murder his slave, no free person 
being present to witness the act." Fage 58 of the first " Re- 
port of the Society for the Mitigation, &c. of Slavery." 

In the answer received from St. Kitt's to the late recom- 
mendations of Government, a letter is inserted from Chief 
Justice Pickwood to the Governor, Maxwell, in which he says, 
" the reception of such testimony" (viz slave testimony,) 
can alone do away with the reproach which now attaches to 
us, that not only cruelty but murder may be committed openly , 
and in the presence of hundreds , without the possibility of ob- 
taining evidence for the conviction of the offender." Page 95 
of " The Picture of Negro Slavery, drawn by the Colonists 
themselves." 

In November, 1824, a Rill brought into the House of As- 
sembly in Jamaica, for the partial amendment of the law of 
slave evidence, was rejected by a majority of thirty-four to 
one. " Second Report of the Society for the Mitigation, &c. 
of Slavery." pp. 12. 85. 

Note D page 9. 

Chief Justice Pickwood, in the letter above referred to, ob- 
serves, " Although our statute book is disgraced with, perhaps 
fewer sanctions to atrocious and sanguinary conduct towards 
the slave population than are to be found among: our neigh- 
bours, there is still much which proclaims the age when these 
our fellow-creatures were considered of less importance than 
the soil which they cultivated, or the cattle which they drove." 
" Picture of Negro Slavery," &c. page 93. 94. 

For a specimen of legal protection and redress afforded to 
slaves suffering under admiited injuries, see the case of the 
Driver, Ness, in Extracts from a Parliamentary Paper, enti- 
tled — " Copies of the Record of the Fiscals of Demarara and 
Berbice, in their capacity of Guardians and Protectors of 
Slaves,' &c. &.c. from February, 1819, to November, 1823. 
The case is given in " Picture of Negro Slavery," &c. page 
161, See also the cases of nine Negro Women belonging to 



42 

Plantation Port Moraunt, ib. page 160 : and of sixteen Ne- 
groes of Plantation Herstelling, ib. page 160 : and of the Ne- 
groes of Plantation Fowlis, ib. page 159 : and of the Negro 
belonging to Plantation Providence, ib. page 147 : and of Fe- 
lix belonging to Plantation Scotland, ib. page 145, 146. 

See also the latter part of Note A. The law there referred 
to was still in existence in the beginning of this present year, 
1825 ; and there is no reason to believe it has been since re- 
pealed. Colonists' Own " Picture," page 27. 

Note E. page 9. 

Bishop Porteus, in a note to his xviith. sermon, page 399, 
speaks of a law then in existence ia Barbadoes, punishing "the 
wilful murder of a Negro from tvantonness (as the law expres- 
ses it) and bloodymindedness, only by a small pecuniary fine." 
This law has just been repealed : but, by the recently amend- 
ed slave code of the Colony, if "any slave shall be killed 
while committing, or attempting to commit, any robbery, or 
theft, or in the attempt to injure any white person, the person 
killing any such slave, shall nol be punished for the same, ei- 
ther criminally or otherwise." Colonists' own " Picture," 
page 21. 

Note F. page 10. 

The average amount of taxes and fees paid on the manumis- 
sion of twenty-five slaves in Berbice, (being the total number 
manumitted from January 1, 1822, to April 13, 1824, accord- 
ing to a return made by the House of Commons,) was forty 
pounds sterling for each. In Demerara and Essequibo the 
average rate is thirty-six pounds sterling for each. Colonists' 
own " Picture," pp. 27 and 29. 

In the recommendations of Government to the Local Legis- 
latures, it is said, " every unnecessary obstacle" to the manu- 
mission of slaves must be removed. " Second Report of the 
Society for the Mitigation," &c. page 94. 

One such unnecessary obstacle is the non-consent of the 
master, when the slave is able to pay for his manumission at 
a feir appraisement. This obstacle is not yet removed : and 



43 

Mr. De La Beche thinks — with the Demerara Court of Policy 
— that it ought not to be removed ; because the "best and 
most industrious people are alone likely to avail themselves of 
this right ; and he," the planter, " would be saddled with 
the worthless and unprofitable, with whom he would be una- 
ble to cultivate the property !" " Notes on the present con- 
dition of the Negroes in Jamaica," page 50. 

Note G. page 10. 

See Royal Jamaica Gazette, September 18, 1824 ; and Co- 
lonists' own " Picture," page 17. 

Note H. page 11. 

Even if it were enlarged to the full extent to which we are 
told it is intended to be carried, it would not then embrace 
one third part of the slave population in the whole of the Bri- 
tish Colonies. Colonists' own " Picture," page 3. The esti- 
mated population of slaves in the island of Trinidad, to which 
alone the Order in Council of 1824 applies, was in that year 
twenty-two thousand five hundred. 

Note I. page 12. 

See Parochial Resolutions of Jamaica, as they appear in the 
Royal Jamaica Gazettes for October, 1824. Those of the 
Freeholders of St. Elizabeth are particularly deserving atten- 
tion, and may be seen in the Appendix to the Second Report 
of the Society for the Mitigation, &c. pp. 83, 84. In the 
additional Postscript to the Royal Gazette of Octoberll — 18, 
1823, the Editor says, in reference to the mild and temperate 
recommendations of his Majesty's Government for the refor- 
mation of the Slave Code, — " We will do his Lordship" (Earl 
BathurstJ " the justice of believing that the threat couched in 
his despatch is not a mere brutum fulmen ; but that it will 
certainly be acted on in case of contumacious resistance to his 
high behest. We will go still further, and we will suppose the 
Common's House, the Lord's House, and the King himself, 



44 



to join in a law for the better internal government of the Co- 
lonies. The next thing to be done is, to transmit the law to 
the islands ; and in the small ones, might may overcome right ; 
but in Jamaica we venture to prophecy, that the said law will 
be no more regarded than the instruction of Lord Bathurst 
wtrch preceeded it." The unmeasured violence of this lan- 
guage in no degree exceeds that of the indecent personal 
abuse which the Editor heaps on the Secretary of State for 
the Colonial Department, as being the organ of a Ministry 
which allows itself to be urged on in its " headstrong and 
ominous career" by " fanatics and revolutionists" of the vilest 
description. 

Note K. page 13. 

" Notwithstanding what has been related of the firmness 

and courage of the natives of the Gold Coast, it is certain 

that the Negroes in general in our islands, (sucn of them at 

least as have been any length of time in a state of servitude,) 

are of a distrustful and cowardly disposition. So degrading 

is the nature of slavery, that fortitude of mind is lost as free 

agency is restrained. To the same cause probably must be 

imputed their propensity to conceal, or violate the truth ; 

which is so general, that I think the vice of falsehood is one 

of the most prominent features in their character. If a negro 

is asked even an indifferent question by his master, he seldom 

gives an immediate reply ; but, affecting not to understand 

what is said, compels a repetition of the question, that he 

may have time to consider, not what is the true answer, but, 

what is the most politic one for him to give. The proneness 

observable in many of them to the vice of theft, has already 

been noticed ; and I am afraid that evil communication 

makes it almost general." nrvan Edwards's " History, Civil 

and Commercial," &c. vol. ii. page 77. lb. page 62. — " It 

has been supposed, that this propensity, among other vices, 

is natural to a state of slavery, which degrades and corrupts 

the human mind in a deplorable manner." " The day," says 

Homer, " which makes a man a slave, takes away half his 

worth ;" and in fact, he loses every impulse to action, except 

that of fear. lb. page S3. 



45 

This moral murder of the Negro character by the horrible 
system of Colonial slavery is the more grievously to be la- 
mented, because in his own country, the African Negro is 
distinguished by the possession of, at least, as many good 
qualities as belong to the people of any of the nations of Eu- 
rope. That there, are, in some instances, broad lines of dis- 
tinction in the natural character of the different tribes which 
inhabit the vast regions from whence the victims of the slave- 
trade are swept away to the West Indian charnel house, is cer- 
tainly true. But by the impartial testimony of a witness, 
whose competency no one will be disposed to call in question, 
it is proved, that the general characteristic qualities of the 
Negroes in Africa are the following ; viz. honesty,' fidelity, gra- 
titude, (Parkes's Travels, page 16.} -parental and filial affection, 
(lb page 47. 81. 254.)— industry, (page 61. 280.)— kind- 
heartedness, (page 262.) — veracity, (page 268.) — conjugal 
fidelity, (page 268.) — gentleness, with few exceptions, (page 
312 ) — and great ingenuity, exercised in various and extensive 
branches of manufactory, and handicraft trades, (pp. 281. 
282.) Astley's Voyages, and Golbery's Travels, bear testimo- 
ny to the same effect. 

In natural understauding they are not inferior to the po- 
lished nations of Europe. " I have often," says Mr. Edwards, 
'* heard them convey much strong meaning in a narrow cam- 
pass : I have been surprized by such figurative expressions, 
and (notwithstanding their ignorance of abstract terms) such 
pointed sentences, as would have reflected no disgrace on poets 
and philosophers." vol ii. p 83. 

" In firmness of mind, in strength of nerve, in contempt of 
pain and death, in fondness for enterprises of difficulty and 
danger, the Koromantyn, or Gold Coast Negro is not to be 
surpassed by the people of any country upon earth." (lb. 
vol ii. page 63.) We were taught, in the days of our boyhood, 
to admire the stern, undaunted, resolution of the noble Ro- 
man, who had purposed to be the assassin of Porsena, in laving 
his hand on the burning coals of the altar to convince the 
Etrurian King how much he despised his threats of torture- 
But, however great his fortitude, it can hardly hear compari- 
son with the indomitable spirit evinced by three Koromantyn 



46 

Negroes, who were tortured to death in Jamaica for murderous 
outrages — as Mr. Bryan Edwards tells us — committed by them 
and a number of their countrymen, in an attempt they engaged 
in for the recovery of their freedom. The acts of "the insur- 
gents," according to Mr. Edwards, must have rivalled in fero- 
city the acts of European troops sacking an enemy's town ; 
for, he says, they spared not even infants at the breast. And 
yet he informs us, that these same infuriated beings, having 
heard from their enslaved comrades the good character for 
tenderness and humanity of an overseer, named Abraham 
Fletcher, " spared his life from respect to his virtues, and 
suffered him to pass through them unmolested." <l History 
civil," &c. page 64. One of these three men above referred 
to, " was condemned to be burnt ; and the other two to be 
hung up alive in irons, and left to perish in that dreadful situ- 
ation. The wretch that was burnt was made to sit on the 
ground, and his body being chained to an iron stake, the fire 
was applied to his feet. He uttered not a groan, and saw his 
legs reduced to ashes with the utmost firmness and composure: 
after which, one of his arms by some means getting loose, he 
snatched a brand from the fire that was consuming him, and 
flung it in the face of the executioner. The two that were hun^ 
up alive were indulged, at their own request, with a hearty 
meal immediately before they were suspended on the gibbet, 
which was erected on the parade of the town of Kingston. From 
that time, until they expired, they never uttered the least com- 
plaint, except only of cold in the night; but diverted themselves 
nil day long in discourse with their countrymen, who were 
permitted, very improperly, to surround the gibbet. On the 
seventh day a notion prevailed among the spectators that one 
ef them wished to communicate an important secret to his 
roaster, my near relation; who being in St. Mary's, the com- 
manding officer sent for me. I endeavoured, by means of an 
interpreter, to let bim know that I was present : but I could 
not understand what he said in return. I remember that both 
he and his fellow-sufferer laughed immoderately at something 
that occurred, — I know not what, The next morning one of 
them silently expired, as did the other on the morning of the 
ninth day." lb vol. ii. pp. 65 — 66. 



47 

Similar invincible heroism was displayed by several insur- 
gent Negroes, who expired under refined tortures in Demera- 
ra, in the year 1796. See No. vi. pp. 45, 46. of a periodical 
Publication, entitled, " Negro Slavery." 

Note L. Page 13. 

In Earl Bathurst's Letter, dated May 28, 1823, and ad- 
dressed to the Governor of Demerara, — and subsequently 
transmitted to the Governors of all the other Slave Colonies, 
— it is said, " The immediate abolition of Sunday markets is 
not insisted upon until the means of religious instruotion shall 
have been provided." Page 92 of Appendix to the Second 
Report of the Anti-Slavery Society. 

rt Until the religious establishment shall be completed, the 
solemnization cf marriages by persons who are not in holy 
orders might be permitted ; and any minister of religion, not 
engaged in any secular calling, might be employed, in cases 
where the attendance of a Clergyman of the Church of England 
cannot be procured." lb. page 93. 

Note M. page 13. 

In the year 1817, " Earl Bathurst addressed a circular let- 
ter to the Governors of the West India Colonies, requiring 
certain returns, with a view of ascertaining the progress made 
by the clergy in the religious instruction of the slave popula- 
tion." The Rev. W. Chaderton, of Antigua, declared it to be 
" absolutely impossible for the established clergy at present 
existing in the West Indies, to pay any effectual attention to 
the slaves." — See p. 78, of No. IX. of the periodical publica- 
tion entitled " Negro Slavery," and p. 216 of " The Slavery 
of the British West India Colonies delineated." By James 
Stephen, Esq. 

The returns were nearly to the same effect from the clergy 
of Barbadoes, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitt's, — with the ex- 
ception of one of its five clergymen viz. the Rev. W. Davis — 
Nevis, Tobago, Tortola, Trinidad, and Jamaica. "In De- 
merara, continaing 80,000 inhabitants, there was only one cler- 



48 

gymanof the Church of England, ando«e of the Dutch Church.' 
— " Negro Slavery." p. 79—81. In Saint Lucia there is, to 
this day, neither Protestant minister, nor Protestant place of 
worship in the whole Colony, nor " even one place of worship 
at Castries, the chief town for the Catholics, who form its 
main population." — Colonists' own " Pieture," p. 96. 

The Bev. R. Bickell, late Naval Chaplain at Fort- Royal, 
in Jamaica, says, " nearly the whole of the field Negroes 
(nine tenths of the population) have not," in November, 1824, 
" even the outward form of religion, and are just as great 
heathens as if they were on the banks of the Gambia or Ni- 
ger." — See " the West Indies as they are," p. 73. — For a full 
and connected view of this important Subject, see " The Sla- 
very of the British West India Colonies delineated." p 205 
—276. 

Note N page 14. 

To the fate of Mr. Smith it were too painful to revert : nei- 
ther is it likely, after the way in which that dark transaction 
was noticed in Parliament, that any other Missionary will be 
sacrificed in cold blood, as he was, under the form and mock- 
ery of law. 

The sense of the Government and Parliament has also been 
strongly marked on the atrocious conduct of the Barbarians 
towards Mr. Shrewsbury, of Bridgetown, on the 19th and 20th 
nights of October, 1823. This highly respectable individual 
naisrowly escaped a violent death from the hands of those who 
gloried in having levelled his place of worship to the ground, 
and defied the local authorities to bring them to justice for 
the outrage. — Colonists' own " Picture," &c. page 26. And 
" Negro Slavery," No. V. p. 42 — 44. Christian Observer, 
Vol. XXIV. p. 23. 

How far the feeling of hostility towards Christian Mission- 
aries, ' Saints, and Fanatics,' has pervaded the white inhabi- 
ants of Jamaica may be learnt from the parochial resolutions 
of the freeholders of Portland, and of St. Elizabeth, as they 
appear in the Royal Gazette of Jamaiea, Octouer 30, 1824 — 
See Appendix to the Second Report of the Anti-Slavery Soci- 



49- 

ety, p. 83 — 84. — And yet, Mr. De La Beche, who was proof 
against the wide spreading contagion of this inveterate preju- 
dice against useful Ministers of Religion, ascribes whatever 
" progress Christianity is now making among the Negroes 
mainly to the labours of the Wesleyan and Baptist Mission- 
aries." — " Notes on the present condition," <^-c p 28. From 
his own personal observation of the Wesleyan Missionaries in 
Jamaica, he believes them to be a highly useful body of men, 
well calculated to instruct the slaves," &c. &c. p. 29. But, 
alas ! the more useful, the more dreaded, and hated, by those 
who cling to the present order of things with the same perti- 
nacity, and on the same principle with which the craftsmen 
at Ephesus clung to the worship of Diana ; well knowing, at 
the same time, that an enlightened people cannot long bean 
enslaved one- Mr. Biekell tells us plainly (p. 83, 84, of " The 
West Indies as they are") that the belief of this truth by the 
r esident Proprietors and Planters (though he himself does not 
admit that it is the truth) is the principal reason of their aver- 
sion " to all instruction, and more particularly to one of the 
most important modes of conveying it, viz. to the attendance 
of Clergymen or others on the estates, for the purpose of ca- 
techising or lecturing." 

Note O. page 15 

" Hundreds of Negroes have no doubt been baptised," says 
Mr. De La Beche; " but the ceremony seems to have been 
considered all-sufficient, no religious instruction haung been 
afforded either before or after." — " Notes on the present con- 
dition " &c. p. 27. 

" Nine thousand, four hundred, and thirteen Negro Slaves,'' 
says the Rev. G. Bridges, of Manchester, in Jamaica, " i have 
actually baptised during my residence in this parish, many of 
whom attend Church ;"■ (how many ? - and, what Church ?J 
"some have learned th* Lord's 1 ' rayer, and ten commandments ; 
and a few are so far advanced as to be now disseminating their 
little stock of religious knowledge ou the estates to which 
they are attached." When Mr. Bridges made this statement, 
he " had been recently presented to the parish of Man- 
chester ; his immediate predecessor, Mr. Hill, in his letter of 
June, 1817, cailed the slaves in that parish, " the heathen'" 
—Christian Observer, Vol. XXIV. p. 295. 

D 






50 

How far it may be the wish of the resident proprietors and 
managers, as a body, that the slaves should cease to be hea- 
then, may be fairly conjectured from the following proposition 
contained in certain resolutions passed at a meeting of the 
White Proprietors of North Naparema, in Trinidad, in refe- 
rence to the obnoxious Order in Council, viz. " that any at- 
tempt to instil into their (the slaves') minds religious instruc- 
tion, or education, beyond what they now possess (so long as 
slaves ai'e property) would not, in the opinion of the under- 
signed tend to render their situation more pleasant, but be, 
in fact, incompatible with the existence of slavery " — Negro 
Slavery," No. VIII. p. 67. 

Note P. page 1G. 

" Mr. Bryan Edwards, in his speech delivered at a free- 
conference between the Council and Assembly of the island of 
Jamaica, in November, 1789, explicitly aud honourably con- 
fesses, "I am persuaded that Mr. Wilberforce has been very 
rightly informed as to the manner in which slaves are generally 
procured. The assertion that a great many of them are cri- 
minals and convicts, is a mockery and insult," &c. — Bishop 
Porteus's Sermons, p. 426. 

Note Q. page 22. 

See the twelve Reports of S6 The Association for the Relief 
of cases of great distress in the island of Antigua, among the 
discarded Negroes," &c. " An account of the cases, and the 
manner in which the money h?s been appropriated, lies at 
Thomas Cristy's, 35, Grace-Church Street, for the inspection 
of Subscribers." 

Note R. page 24. 

The slaves are not allowed to grow any article of exportable 
produce for their own profit. — See Colonists' own " Picture," 
p. 18. 108 — In addition to the provisions which they raise by 
their own labour, " a few herrings, or a little salt fish, but in 
quantities so small, as merely to serve as a seasoning for their 
food, is given to the slaves." — Second Report of the Anti-sla- 
very Society, p. 20. 



51 

Note S. page 24. 

See Ibid. p. 19—29. See also p. 17 of " Notes on the pre- 
sent condition," &c. It is there admitted, that " a decrease 
of Negroes is very common" on the Jamaica Estates, " arising 
from various circumstances ;" of which "ill treatment" is 
allowed to be one in some instances. But, what were the 
proper term whereby to designate the crime of destroying the 
life of a fellow-creature by ill treatment ? Let the West In- 
dian Proprietor lay his hand on his heart, and answer that 
question in the sight of God. 

Note T. page 25. 

That free labour is cheaper to the employer than slave la- 
bour is a position of which the truth has been irrefragably 
established both by argument and experiment. Smith's 
Wealth of Nations, Book I. Chap. 8. p. 109. Vol. I. of the 
Edinburgh Edit. 1811. 

" A Letter to M. Jean Baptist Say, on the comparative 
expence of free and Slave-labour. By Adam Hodgson." 

** Thoughts on the necessity of improving the condition of 
the Slaves in the British Colonies," &c. By T. Clarkson, 
Esq.— See p. 36, and thence to the end of the Pamphlet. 

The demoralizing effect of West India Slavery on the free 
inhabitants of the Colonies is proved by the unbiassed testi- 
mony of numberless witnesses of the first respectability ; 
amongst others, by the Rev. Thomas Cooper, in his "Facts 
illustrative of the condition of the Negro slaves in Jamaica ;" 
by the Rev. R. Bickell, in " The West Indies as they are ;" 
by Dr. Williamson, (a strenuous opponent of the abolition of 
slavery,) in his " Medical and Miscellaneous Observations 
relative to the West India Islands." The details are beyond 
conception horrible. That slavery, wherever it has existed, 
has always tended to generate a spirit of unrelenting cruelty 
in the bosom of the master, and that no order of minds has 
been found to be altogether proof against its influence in this 
respect, either before or after the time when Cato, the Cen- 
sor, drove from his door, and sold for a few denarii the super- 
annuated, but unoffending slaves, whose days of profitable 



vigor had been spent in his service, (Plutarch's M. Cato.) 
hre facts known and acknowledged, by every person of ordi- 
nnry information in the kingdom. But, the depths of profli- 
gacy and licentiousness into which the White Inhabitants of 
the Slave Colonies are sunk, through the influence of the sys- 
tem there prevailing, is known, as yet, to comparatively few 
of the people of this country ; and if it were correctly stated 
to them, on however good authority, would scarcely gain 
their credence . 

Note U. page 26. 

That it is impossible for the friends of abolition to stir a 
single step without irritating the Planters, is plain from the 
temper in which the very moderate provisions of the Order in 
Council have been received in Trinidad, and the recommenda- 
tions of Government in the other Colonies. " Under these 
circumstances," say the Planters of Trinidad, alluding to the 
prohibition of the cart-whip as a stimulous to labour in the 
field, " can any cheerful co-operation be expected from the 
harrassed and irritated master to promote the moral improve- 
ment of the Slaves ? It .may be said, without fear of contra- 
diction, that every such feeling is at this moment extinct in 
the colony."— Second Report of the Society for the mitigation 
&c. p. 3. See also Note I. 

Note V. page 28. 

Supposing, for instance, that religious and moral instruc- 
tion could do as much for the West Indian Slaves, who should 
be the subjects of it, as it could for persons of free condition ; 
still, since the resident Planters and Overseers are opposed to 
their receiving such instruction, how can it ever be effectually 
administered ? Whatever be the intentions of the Home Go- 
vernment, of the local Authorities, or of the Proprietors resi- 
dent in this country, 30 U0 miles from their estates, nothing 
can be easier than for the Managers on the spot to render 
those intentions completely abortive. Mr. De La Beche in- 
forms us, (p. 21,) that " the division of the people into gangs, 
according to their age or strength, is much the same in various 
parts of Jamaica." On his own estate, he says, (p. 6, 7,) 
they are divided into three gangs, the second, consisting " of 
4-veakly adults, and young people from ten to seventeen years of 



53 

age ; the small gang j s formed of children from six to nine 
years of age, whose only work is to carry grass to the stable, 
and pick green slips and vines for the hogs, under the charge 
of a careful old woman." From the time, then, that a slave 
is six years of age until he is past work, *' the harrassed and 
irritated master" needs never be at a loss for an excuse to 
detain him from attending on any moral or religious instruc- 
tion which might be provided for him, either by private cha- 
rity, or at the public expense. 

Note W. page 31. 

Colonists' own ** Picture," pp. 145, 146. 

Second Report of the Anti-slavery Society, p. 99: " Facts 
illustrative of the condition," &c. p. 9. 
Note X. page 36. 

"Thoughts on the necessity of improving the condition of 
the Slaves," &c. p. 3. 

"The Slavery of the British West India Colonies delinea- 
ted." Note at p. 207. — In fact, the inadmissibility of the 
evidence of Slaves against the Whites would, of itself alone, 
be sufficient to render almost any law that could be passed for 
their protection a dead letter, — a mere nullity. — See Note C. 
Note Y. Page 36. 

Such was the language held by Mr. Canning in a speech he 
delivered on the Slave-trade, in 1799. He also said, on the 
saiue occasion, *' Trust not the masters of slaves in what 
concerns legislation for slavery. However specious their laws 
may appear, depend upon it they must be ineffectual in their 
operation. It is in the nature of things that they should be 

so." " Let, then, the British House of Commons do their part 

themselves. Let them not delegate the trust of doing it to 
those who cannot execute that trust fairly. Let the evil be. 
remedied by an assembly of freemen, by the Government «f a 
free people, and not by the masters of slaves. Their laws can 
never reach, could never cure the evil." — Colonists' own 
" Picture," p. 131. The experience of the six and twenty 
years, which have elapsed since this language, so worthy a 
British senator, was uttered, concurs with that of all prece* 
ding ages to stamp on these sentiments the indelible character 



54 

of truth. How deeply is it to be regretted, that principles so 
admirable should never yet have been acted upon : that even 
to this day they should have done nothing towards the deliver- 
ance of nearly a million of our fellow-subjects from a state 
of merciless and hateful oppression ! 

Note Z. page 36. 
"If it be asked," said Mr. Smith, the late devoted Mis- 
sionary of Demerara, " are there not authorities to whom the 
injured slaves can appeal for redress ? The answer is in the 
affirmative. But many of the legally constituted authorities 
are themselves owners of plantations, following the same sys- 
tem, and perhaps, by means of their managers, practising 
the same abuses on their slaves. Judging from their conduct, 
it would seem that some of them consider it a greater crime 
for the Negroes to complain of their wrongs, than for the mas- 
ter to inflict them. The complainants are almost sure to be 
flogged, and frequently before the complaint is investigated, if 
listening to the exculpatory tale of the master can be called 
an investigation ; and even when the case is so evidently on 
the side of the complainant that it can neither be denied or 
evaded, the decision is so studiously concealed from them, 
that they scarcely know xohether the law is to protect the oppres- 
sed, or to indemnify the oppressor ; nor can they always solve 
the problem from the result." — Colonists' own "Picture,'* 
p. 32. The accuracy of these statements is but too fully veri- 
fied by the facts detailed in the official Returns of the Fiscal 
of Berbice. For the description of this document, and for re- 
ference to some particular cases therein contained, illustrative 
of the truth of Mr. Smith's allegations, see note D. 



HUDSON, PRINTER, BIRMINGHAM. 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 
SERMONS, Doctrinal and Practical, Preached in the Parish 

Church of West Bromwich, one volume, 8vo. Price 9s. 
Published by Hatchards', London ; and Hudson, Birmingham 



