
THE 

WEST INDIA QUESTION 

PLAINLY STATED; 

THE ONLY PRACTICAL REMEDY £■U^Jl,^c^^ 
BRIEFLY CONSIDERED: ^ 

IN A 

LETTER 

TO THE 

RIGHT HON. HENRY GOULBURN, 

CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER. 



FORTUNATUS DWARRIS, 

OF THE MIDDLE TEMPLE, ESQUIRE, BARRISTER AT liA W. 



" You do seem to know 
Something of me or what concerns me ; pray you 
(Since doubting things go ill often hurts more 
Than to be sure they do : — for certainties 
Either are past remedies ; or, timely knowing, 
The remedy's then born,) discover to me 
What both you spur and stop." 

Cymhelmet Act i. Sc. 7- 



LONDON : 

PRINTED FOR JAMES RIDGWAY, PICCADILLY, 

MDCCCXXVail. 



/■ ^^# 



LONDONj 

PSINTBD BV THOMAS DAVISOJf, H'HITEFRIARS. 



ADVERTISEMENT. 

The publication of this Pamphlet has 
been delayed by accidental causes, but 
the questions at issue remaining equally 
open after the disposal of Mr. Wilmot 
Horton's motion for the production of the 
evidence in the Demerary case, as when 
that motion was pending, the Author has 
sent it to press without any alterations. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2010 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/westindiaquestioOOdwar 



THE 



WEST INDIA QUESTION 

PLAINLY STATED. 



TO THE RIGHT HON. HENRY GOULBURN, 

CHANCELLOR OP THE EXCHEQUER. 

Middle Temple, February 29, 1828. 
DEAR SIR, 

It is not from the confidence which, what- 
ever our own sentiments may be, it is natural 
and pleasing to repose in undeviating consist- 
ency, unblemished integrity, and unsuspected 
honour — nor is it on any grounds, however 
solid, of public or private respect, that I take 
the liberty of addressing to you the following 
remarks. In submitting these observations to 
your notice, I am influenced in the first place 
by your present situation in his majesty's go- 
vernment; there appearing to me, for reasons 
which will be disclosed in the sequel, a peculiar 

B 



2 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

propriety in offering my suggestions to that 
quarter, from which alone, in my apprehension, 
a remedy for the evils complained of can pro- 
ceed. And if the station you at present hold 
in his majesty's councils furnishes a ground for 
the step I am taking, a reason equally cogent 
will be found, in the office you formerly filled, 
as Under Secretary for the Colonies. In the 
latter character you were naturally rendered 
famihar with my subject, and became, to a great 
extent, in possession of the details. I am also, 
I confess, not unmindful that to your kindness 
and that of your brother, my talented friend, 
now rapidly rising to eminence in his profession, 
I owe my own opportunities of acquiring in- 
formation upon the subject. The appointment 
I then received afforded me singular advantages 
for acquiring local knowledge from the most 
authentic sources, and from the fountain head 
of personal observation. Though myself born 
in the West Indies, I had left them in my in- 
fancy; knew nothing of their affairs; had taken 
no part in the discussions respecting them, and 
except as a friend to rational, constitutional 
liberty, was without any bias or preconceived 
opinions upon the subject; otherwise, need 1 
say, my appointment would never have met the 
concurrence of Lord Bathurst. For that noble 



PLAINLY STATED. O 

lord, then at the head of the department of the 
colonies, I entertain, and have never failed to 
express, sentiments of the highest respect and 
veneration (a). Cherishing those sentiments 
with respect to the noble lord, I attach a pro- 
portionate value to his unsolicited acknowledg- 
ment, that I have discharged the delicate and 
important duties which his majesty had been 
graciously pleased to confide to me, in a man- 
ner entitling me to the approbation of his ma- 
jesty's government. But it becomes for that 
very reason, the Inore necessary to observe — 
and I desire to state it explicitly — that in the 
observations and suggestions which I have now 
the honour to submit to you, there is nothing 
of an official character: they contain, and will 
be understood to express, the views and opinions 
only of a private individual. The writer's mo- 
tives, if it be necessary to state them^ will be 
found in the desire to afford information — in 
the honest ambition to be useful. His hints 
and notices (for they affect to be no more) 
consist for the most part of scattered memoranda 
and excerpta from his traveUing portfolio, with 
some later fruits of reflection and discussion 
at home (6). To collect and arrange these is 
the task he has undertaken. Sdme apology is 
due for the perfunctory manner in which that 

B ^2 



4 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

engagement has been fulfilled. But there ap- 
peared to him imminent danger of the legis- 
lature, early in the present session, adopting 
some fatal measure upon a subject ill under- 
stood — and perhaps irrevocably. Under such 
circumstances, no man, whose communications 
may be serviceable, should be silent. But the 
time was short — the occasion urgent — the sense 
of duty strong: if the conception be vigorous, 
allowances will be made for the execution ! 

It appears by the printed votes of the House 
of Commons that the late zealous and inde- 
fatigable, as well as candid and enlightened 
Under Secretary of the Colonies, Mr. Wilmot 
Horton, has given notice of a motion for the 
production of the evidence in the Demerara 
case ; and the West India question is therefore 
about to be again practically considered. The 
Orders in Council in question, regarded as a 
failure or disapproved by all parties, seem to 
be considered as virtually abandoned. As- 
suming this to be the case, (and it is at least 
sufficiently accurate for my present purpose,) 
this great and complicated question will anew 
become the subject of parliamentary discussion; 
and most important and desirable it is, that it 
should be carefully examined in all its bearings, 
with a view, if possible, to its final adjudication 



PLAINLY STATED. 



and settlement. The frequent agitation of the 
question cannot do otherwise than endanger 
the safety of the colonies. Who, under such 
circumstances, will be at a loss to conceive 
the unsettled state of mind of the slave popu- 
lation — the apprehension of the planters — and 
the necessary consequences of these — mutual 
jealousy, distrust, fear, and hatred? Such is 
the picture of the colonies: and what is the 
state of the proprietors and mortgagees at 
home? all confidence impaired — all credit on 
the security of West India property destroyed 
— all energies paralysed — all capital despaired 
of, or sought to be withdrawn ! And to what 
are these evils attributable? The causes are 
numerous and complex; but the first and prin- 
cipal I believe to be— a state of uncertainty; 
the circumstance that nothing is believed to 
be determined on;— nothing clearly seen;— no- 
thing unalterably fixed ;—^Ae want of the worst 
being known! The colonists object to the 
Orders in Council with considerable force that, 
while they fail of effecting the good expected 
from them, certain of the proposed ameliora- 
tions incur the risk of undefined and irremedia- 
ble evil. " The slave," say they, " does not see 
the whole of the benefit intended him, nor the 
planter the extent of the mischief with which 



O THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

he is threatened. Something seems to be still 
kept back. Whatever the colonist yields, he 
is not to suppose that the only sacrifice required 
of him. One concession is avowedly to pave 
the way to another. Whatever the slave ob- 
tains is only ancillary to his getting something 
more; another grasp at an uncommunicated 
good; another step in the doubtful advance 
to a still protracted freedom. Thus must the 
parties — nominally master and slave — struggle 
on wdth mutually exasperated feelings, till they 
attain a period wholly unascertained; which 
the one party will be struggling to accelerate, 
and the other is interested to retard: a point, 
at which all subordination ceases, when estates 
can no longer be worked; a crisis, fatal to all 
interests and involving, in one common ruin^ 
capital, and skill, and labour : — all cultivation 
— all improvement — and all happiness !*' 

Such, with the animated tone, is the gloomy 
feeling of the colonist, and his statements are 
not undeserving of attention. That the ques- 
tion should be set at rest, that something con* 
elusive should be done, all good and reflecting 
men, and particularly those who best know the 
real difficulties of the subject, must ardently 
desire. Happy shall I be, if I can in any way 
contribute to elucidate those parts of the sub*- 



PLAINLY STATED. 



ject Still left confessedly obscure, or assist by 
any useful suggestion, in the equitable deter- 
mination of this long-agitated question. With 
this view, it is proposed to consider this em^ 
barrassing subject in a plain and even popular 
manner, upon its intrinsic merits. Complicated 
as it has become, (and partly from the method 
of treating it,) it may be simplified by reducing 
it to three general heads: — 

1st, The present system, with its alleged evils. 
2d, The remedy proposed. 
3d, The remedy required. 

THE PRESENT SYSTEM, WITH ITS ALLEGED EVILS. 

Fortunately, at the present stage of the in- 
quiry, certain points may be considered as 
established or conceded. It would now be 
thought puerile and idle to declaim about na- 
tural rights — and it is at last discovered to be 
useless to reason upon abstract principles. The 
law of England has, whether inconsiderately or 
not, sanctioned a property in slaves. On the 
faith of its acts and declarations, property has 
been invested in their purchase, and planta- 
tions have been settled. Nor is this all: many 
estates are said to have been granted,, and to 



8 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

be yet held, on the express terms of their cul- 
tivation by slaves (c). It is at least clear, that 
this was always an implied condition. Subse- 
quently, the colonies objected to, and even 
prohibited, the further importation of slaves {d). 
The parent state replied to their remon- 
strances, " we cannot allow the colonies to 
check or discourage a trade so beneficial to the 
nation." The law of the mother country, and 
the conditions imposed by the original grantor, 
are the foundation of this unfortunate species 
of property. Many other kinds of property (e), 
tithes, forfeitures, deodands, manorial rights, 
are also obnoxious ; many rules of law, such as 
the exclusion of the half-blood from inheriting 
real property ; the exclusion of a father from 
succeeding to the estate of his son, dying with- 
out issue ; corruption of blood, &c., have been 
often disapproved, and might now be modelled 
differently, but as established and recognised 
by legislative and judicial authority, they can- 
not be infringed without injustice. Morally, 
socially, and politically considered, the rights 
of property, duly created, and under legitimate 
sanctions, must be held sacred. A statesman 
of the present day will content himself with ob- 
serving, " lji?id slaves property!'* 

Slaves, then, being property, because the law 



PLAINLY STATED. 9 

has made them such, and property being sacred, 
and the obligation to maintain it inviolate, part of 
the original contract of society, it is almost su- 
perfluous to ask whether, in any country, where 
rights are respected, property can be taken from 
the ov^ner without compensation ? Assuredly it 
cannot. If then it cannot rightfully be taken 
away, without compensation, can it be more 
justifiably endangered or deteriorated? In 
other words, may that be brought about indi- 
rectly, which it is admitted cannot be effected 
directly? This will scarcely be contended. 
Surely no man has a right to try experiments 
upon my property, while it continues mine : if 
my neighbour is disposed to try new methods 
of productive labour upon any chosen spot, let 
him first become the purchaser of the soil and 
its appurtenances. If it be said, that what is 
now proposed is a great national experiment; 
then let it be tried at the national expense ! 

Without compensation, then, property can- 
not be rightfully taken or deteriorated; and I 
lay out of the question, what it would be inde- 
cent for a moment to suppose — the perpetra- 
tion of a deliberate wrong. But is there any 
thing in the use of property, however unques- 
tioned ; in the abuse of rights, the most fully 
admitted; in other words, in the conduct of 



10 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

the master, or the actual condition of the slave, 
to require, and therefore to justify, the inter- 
ference of the parent state ? This is an import- 
ant particular, as leading to inquiry into the 
present condition and treatment of the slave 
population ; and the more material, as improve- 
ment in these respects is constantly represented 
by the anti-colonial party in this country as 
mere delusion. " It is to be regretted," says 
the intelligent and candid author of the West- 
India question practically considered, " that the 
truth, with respect to those accusations, cannot 
be ascertained, as it is one so susceptible of 
proof or contradiction/* Again, " as the ap- 
peals made by the abolitionists to the people 
rest materially on the assertion of the misery 
and privation at this moment experienced by 
the negroes, it certainly would be advisable, if 
it were possible, that such conclusive evidence 
were brought forward, either in support or in 
contradiction of that assertion, as would no 
longer leave this part of the question in doubt ; 
which doubt, at this period, operates so invidi- 
ously and prejudicially against the West-India 
body." The observation is perfectly just, and 
the deficiency has not yet, that I am aware of, 
been supplied. The inquiry is, however, in 
every respect most material. If the colonies 



PLAINLY STATED. II 

are steadily improving, as respects the condi- 
tion of <2// their population ; if, upon a candid 
construction of their proceedings, they are at 
present framing, not merely highly-amended, 
but relatively good laws, (though their juris- 
prudence is yet very far from attaining that 
theoretical perfection which men of ardent 
minds too impetuously require) ; if (I still put 
it hypothetically) the condition of the slave in 
religious culture, in improved moral conduct 
(the result of increased self-respect), in domes- 
tic comfort, in the acquisition and enjoyment 
of property, the fruit of honest industry, is 
hourly increasing, has not the planter some rea- 
son to protest against an indiscreet zeal, by 
which an improved and improving state shall be 
interfered with, disturbed, and possibly coun- 
teracted ? The West-India interest may, it will 
be conceded to me, in such case, reasonably 
call upon a deliberative assembly (not engaged 
upon a canal or a rail-road, but required to over- 
turn a legislative system of centuries standing, 
and in which the most important interests are 
involved), to examine, before they decide — to 
explore the signs of the times — to ascertain facts 
— to pause upon hazardous experiments — to re- 
sist sudden and violent, as opposed to mild and 
gradual, changes ! 



12 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

Is there, then, in our colonies progressive ad- 
vancement?— an improved moral feeling in the 
master, and a better secured protection to the 
slave? I maintain the affirmative of both pro- 
positions. If I am asked, in what the advance- 
ment in the condition of the slave consists? I 
anwer, 

In gentleness of treatment, and acknowledg- 
ment of his rights by his master ; 

In access to religious instruction ; 

In opportunities of intellectual improvement; 

In the enjoyment of domestic comfort ; 

In a better secured protection for his person ; 

In a recognised right to his property; 

In the power of disposing of his gains by will; 

In the means and the motives tending to an 
accumulation of property ; and eventually of 
purchasing his freedom, with the consent of his 
owner, if he is of industrious habits. 

If I am desired to point out the indications 
of an improved feeling in the master, I in- 
stance — 

The more than facility, the aid the colonists 
have given to the extension of the church esta- 
blishment ; 

The institution and support of schools, to 
which children of all colours are indiscrimi- 
nately admitted ; 



PLAINLY STATED. 13 

The encouragement afforded to the baptism 
and marriage of slaves ; 

The infrequency of any new cases of barba- 
rity (the instances of cruelty, with the excep- 
tion of those contained in the Berbice Fiscal's 
Reports, being all old stock stories) ; 

The number and frequency of voluntary ma- 
numissions, and the state of manners, which 
makes an application for a slave to be allowed to 
purchase his freedom, invariably attended to ; 

The exclusion from society of persons ac- 
cused or suspected of cruelty ; 

The circumstance that, at Marshal's sale, 
when it is understood that a negro is bidding 
for his freedom, no person is found to oppose 
him. 

The circumstance of its being unusual, in 
practice, though unfortunately sanctioned by 
law, to separate families of slaves at public 
sales. 

The fact of its being equally unusual for per- 
sons to become purchasers of slaves at such 
sales, till they obtain the wiUing consent of the 
negroes themselves. 

The invariable practice, on the sale of trades- 
men, domestics, and other unattached slaves, 
of previously giving them time to look about 
for a purchaser. 



14 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

The law and usage that a premium is allowed 
to mothers on an increase of children by the 
same father, and which, it may be observed, 
there is no inducement to withhold, for though 
paid by the master in the first instance, it is de- 
ducted from his public taxes. 

But let the objections of the anti-colonists 
to the present system be successively stated 
and examined. It is urged by them, 

1st. That nothing effectual has yet been done in 
the way of improvement by the colonists themselves. 
I give a due prominence to this hardy and ad- 
venturous assertion. 

Answer. Nothing done! no change effected ! 
Look at the representations of persons so re- 
spectable as Master Stephen and Mr. Macaulay 
as to the state of the slave colonies thirty years 
ago. Does any reasonable man believe the pre- 
sent condition of the islands to resemble the 
pictures there drawn, in any, the slightest, de- 
gree? Either those accounts are correct, or 
they are not. If they have any pretension to 
accuracy, a most astonishing change for the 
better has undeniably taken place. If the 
portrait never was faithful, then, to be sure, 
cadit qucestio. But great part of those state- 
ments every candid reader will readily admit 
had some foundation in truth; and the mistake 



PLAINLY STATED. 15 

of those well-intentioned persons consists in 
shutting their eyes to all recent improvements, 
in believing that the West Indies have been 
stationary while all the rest of the world was 
rapidly advancing ; in ill-judgingly refusing the 
coJonists credit for what they have done, in 
order to compel them to do more, which they 
ought to do. Nothing done ! The short space 
of a quarter of a century has effected a revolu- 
tion in feelings and manners in these remote 
colonies, more extensive, signal, and complete, 
than, I firmly believe, was ever before known, 
in the same time, in the history of man ! But 
the discussion has hitherto been dealing in ge- 
nerals and in the region of opinions rather 
than facts. It is proper to come to a closer 
consideration of particulars for the benefit of 
candid inquirers, who have not possessed oppor- 
tunities of personal observation : I will collect 
facts diligently, let these weigh them dispas- 
sionately. 

Objection 2. — Slaves cannot legally possess 
property. 

A, What they before virtually and practically 
enjoyed, is now, in numerous instances, secured 
to them by law; and they can also bequeath their 
acquisitions to others by will. And it should 
be observed, that, even before the recent 



16 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

ameliorations, their peculium was secured to 
them, if not by law, by the state of manners. 

Objection 3. — Marriage is not encouraged. 

A. I assert the contrary. The slave, indeed, 
is not compelled to marry, which would be a 
profanation ; but he is recommended, and his 
prejudices against it are gradually yielding. 
That few marriages are yet registered, or even 
that few take place, is most inconclusive to 
prove that marriage is not encouraged. 

Objection 4. — Slaves work under the lash. 

A. The power of punishment upon estates 
(and especially as delegated to inferior agents) 
is now much restricted. The cart-whip, either 
as an instrument of punishment, or as a symbol 
of authority, has grown out of use. The cat-o'- 
nine-tails, which is used in the British army, is 
substituted for it. Indeed, the first frenzy of im- 
provement produced in the island of Dominica 
a beautiful specimen of crude legislation upon 
this subject. The draft of the amended slave- 
bill actually abolished theuseof the cart-whip for 
any purpose whatever, within that colony. The 
exhibition of the whip in the field (for it is very 
rarely used) should, I agree, be done away with. 
The question of punishment, however, to a 
practical reformer, presents considerable diffi- 
culties. It is, at the present time, in several 



PLAINLY STATED. I? 

islands, though by no means effectually, regu- 
lated by law. 

Objection .5. The master regulates the mea^ 
sure of the slaves^ labour. 

A, Nevertheless they have, in the intervals 
of work, more time their own, than the labourer 
in England; to wit, half an hour to breakfast, 
and two hours for dinner. It is said they begin 
their toil before day, and the assertion is true; 
but in such a climate it is no hardship to per- 
form their work in the cool of the morning. It 
ought, in common candour, at the same time to 
have been stated, that in the countries of which 
we are now speaking, all classes rise at gun-fire ; 
that is, at ^we o'clock in the morning. Again, 
the field labour is truly represented as severe*; 
but so is ploughing, and hedging, and ditching, 
in England, though, I admit, not quite in the 
same degree, as agriculture here, is in a state of 
greater perfection. There is, however, good 
reason to believe, that the use of the plough, 
superseding the hoe, will gradually diminish the 
labour required in the West Indies. It should 
not escape attention, too, when speaking of the 
labour exacted in crop time (constantly dwelt 
upon by the abolitionists as oppressive, because 
of its uncertain duration) that, as windmills are 
commonly used in the islands, there will neces- 

c 



18 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

sariJy be many days when the mill cannot work, 
for an unanswerable reason, because there is 
no wind. 

In England, as well as in the colonies^ the 
master of servants '' regulates the measure of 
their labour," but the hours are conventional: 
so in almost all the islands, the working hours 
are ascertained and fixed by law. What more 
is or can be done for the labouring classes in 
any country ? 

At the same time, I am disposed to admit 
that the measure of labour may now be left too 
much to the discretion of the master. Hard 
masters of estates weak in hands, may occa- 
sionally be guilty of protracting the labour of 
the slave into the night. This should be pro- 
hibited, and no work allowed to be carried on 
more than one hour after sunset, under stated 
penalties. Certain and limited task-work should 
be encouraged, and the slave population pro- 
tected from being over-worked, not only by 
the dead letter, but by the living and available 
sanction of the law. 

Objection 6. — The master regulates the mea- 
sure of their food, 

A» By no means. It is in almost every island 
prescribed and regulated by law ^ and yet, if 
any thing could be safely left to the master, it 



PLAINLY STATED. I9 

would be this article. Who starves or ill-treats 
his dray-horse ? . Gentleness of treatment is not 
more the master's duty than his interest. The 
practice, now becoming prevalent, of growing 
provisions in large quantities upon estates, will 
be very advantageous in securing slaves being 
more regularly fed, and on that account de- 
serves encouragement. 

Objection 7,~-Thet/ receive no wages, 
(I include this idle objection because it has 
been frequently urged, though evidently used 
ad captandum purely.) 

A, True ; but their labour is not, therefore, 
uncompensated. They certainly receive no 
wages, eo 7iomine; but they have a hut or cot- 
tage, land, clothes, provisions, medical attend- 
ance when ill, and the satisfactory assurance 
that, in case of their death, their children will, 
in like manner, be provided for. Let those in 
England who are engaged in the arduous and 
fearfully increasing struggle to live, let the 
feeling and prudent, who, as insurers of their 
lives, attest the value of securing some, how- 
ever scanty, provision for their posterity, ap- 
preciate this advantage ! Slaves, besides, ge- 
nerally receive elementary instruction in the 
principles of religion, and the sort of knowledge 
suited to their station. The want of many of 

c 2 



20 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

these advantages is often felt and deplored by 
the free people of colour, who are commonly in 
a state of the most miserable destitution. I am 
not of the number of those who will compare 
the predial slave to the English labourer, in the 
latter's day of manly health and strength, and 
— where it remains unaffected by the debasing 
influence of the poor-laws — of conscious inde- 
pendence. But what is the state of the sick 
poor in England? Certainly not comparable to 
that of the slave in the colonies! A plantation 
doctor receives from dJO to J^lOO per annum, 
for the care of the slaves upon an estate, and 
medicine is also provided by the owner. The 
bowels of the poor in England (,/) are farmed out 
to the village apothecary at the rate of from 
£5 to <£15 per parish. The history of the poor, 
carefully analyzed, would afford other painful 
illustrations; but it is an ungrateful subject, and 
I will not pursue it. 

Objection 8. — Sunday labour is permitted: the 
SuJiday market is discreditable, ayid has the most 
pernicious effects, 

A, Sunday, I allow, should not be a day of 
worldly occupation ; yet, on the other hand, one- 
sixth of a slave's labour is a great deal for a 
master to relinquish, without compensation. I 
am here supposing that the master may be re- 



PLAINLY STATED. 21 

quired to give up the whole of Saturday. The 
day, as Dr. Chalmers suggested, should be 
bought. For the purpose of the market half 
the Saturday would be sufficient, and out of 
crop time that, I am assured, is usually given. 
Where the slave has grounds to cultivate, and 
is not fed, if he does not work in them on 
Sunday, he requires the whole of Saturday. I 
will endeavour to explain the different modes 
of proceeding and their consequences. Where 
slaves are fed (have provisions found) by the 
master, were it not for the Sunday market, 
the Sabbath might be devoted to repose, re- 
ligious observances, and instruction. In such 
case, as the feeding them is very expensive, it 
might be too much to require the master to give 
up one entire day; the afternoon might be suf- 
ficient. When the slaves have merely land 
given them to grow their own provisions, an- 
other day, exclusive of Sunday, ought clearly 
to be allow^ed, to enable them to cultivate pro- 
vision grounds, and attend the market. The 
Sunday then, would be differently employed. 
For myself, I have always considered, that if, 
instead of late, fevered and tired, the slave re- 
turned fresh, soothed and humanized, from his 
day of rest to his Monday's labour, the master 
would sustain little loss. He would see the 



22 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

negro improve in character and condition, enjoy 
and appreciate domestic comfort, and gradually 
acquire self-respect. His house, — his person, — 
would be attended to, and become neat and 
clean. He would be seen on the Sabbath day, 
nursing his children (now too often neglected), 
learning to read his Bible, or, as he made greater 
proficiency, teaching his little ones to read and 
spell. I saw a Sunday thus spent, at Antigua, 
to my very great refreshment and delight. 

Objection 9.- — Every black man is considered 
a slave: there is a presumption cyf slavery from 
colour, 

A, This is (and I am not the person to deny 
it) an opprobrium where it exists ; but it is 
nearly exploded, and the doctrine is expressly 
repudiated by most of the colonies, who refer 
to their laws, which allow a freedom from re- 
putation. It however, no doubt (and very 
strange it seems), did at one time obtain. The 
opposite principle now generally prevails, but 
Grenada has the peculiar merit of having made 
an explicit declaration upon the subject. 

Objection 10. — Sla\}e evidence is excluded, 

A, This was till lately true, and I think inde- 
fensible, while it continued the case ; but con- 
siderable progress has been made recently, in 
carrying the suggestions of government in this in- 



PLAINLY STATED. ^3 

Stance into effect, while some colonies have car- 
ried it to a greater extent than the provisions re- 
quired. The legislature of Tobago has consented 
to receive slave evidence in all cases without 
any restriction— 'Ho do away altogether with the 
distinction which has heretofore prevailed be- 
tween the admission of the evidence of persons 
free and bond, leaving them equally open to the 
same common law exceptions." The island of 
Barbadoes has admitted the evidence of slaves, 
not only in criminal cases, *' misdemeanour, mur- 
der, felony, or other offence, except forgery," but 
also " in all cases where civil actions for trespass 
or assault may be brought against any person 
whomsoever." Other colonies, Dominica, Gre- 
nada, St. Vincent, have admitted slave evidence 
against all persons except the owner. If negro 
evidence is also not at present received in Ja- 
maica, it is not because the Jamaica legislature 
has persisted in refusing that concession — with 
trial by jury and the right to property, — to 
slaves, but because, when enacted by that legis- 
lature, the act has, on particular grounds, af- 
fecting religious toleration, been disallowed by 
his Majesty at home. 

Objection 11. — The separation of families by 
judicial sale is still allowed, and operates most 
cruelly. 



S4 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

J. An admitted evil ; and the power of separa- 
tion on voluntary sales is not a whit less objec- 
tionable. But if the law is odious and cruel, how 
meritorious is the practice which is opposed to 
the law, as is generally the case in this instance ! 

Objection 12. — Fines and taa^es have been 
imposed, mth a view to prevent or discourage 
manumissions, 

A, These charges, or rather securities (for 
such they really were), are almost every where 
abolished, and when they did exist, proceeded 
upon grounds essentially different from those 
represented in this country. The object was, 
undoubtedly, to prevent proprietors throwing 
their old and impotent slaves as burthens upon 
the public. It was against such event only that 
security was taken — I think not unreasonably. 
From the state of manners, a manumission is 
rarely,— I am well assured and implicitlybelieve, 
— never, refused to a slave desirous and capable 
of purchasing his freedom. At their deaths, and 
even in their lives, the planters are extremely 
liberal in enfranchising their faithful domestic 
slaves, and so far from a leaning being found to 
exist against freedom, it was admitted that 
when a slave bids by a friend at Marshal's sale, 
which often happens, no person will oppose him. 

Objection 13 — Masters are opposed to the 
religious instruct/on of their slaves, 



PLAINLY STATED. 25 

A, To disabuse the public mind in this parti- 
cular, it is only necessary to refer to the concur- 
rent testimony of the bishops of both dioceses, 
and to the reports made to them by the inferior 
clergy. See post, p. 26 — 31. 

Objection 14. — Population decreases, and the 
dimhiutwn in numbers must proceed from the ill 
treatment the slaves receive. 

A, First,— They?3rc^ is not clearly or universally 
established. In Barbadoes there is an increase 
of population. If this is not the case in all the 
colonies, non sequitur that it is occasioned by 
ill usage, and the contrary is the truth. The 
numbers were originally swelled by newly im- 
ported Africans; these, when they die, cannot 
be replaced by the same means, and during their 
lives they continue addicted to irregular habits 
and a course of life unfavourable to the multi- 
phcation of their species. It is only when the 
native Africans are extinct, that the experiment 
whether the numbers can be kept up upon a 
plantation cultivated by slaves, can be fairly 
tried, with a Creole race. 

Objection 15. Instances are still frequent of 
immoderate punishments of slaves. 

A. No : they must not be alleged to be fre- 
quent. They occur occasionally, but rarely; as 
do cases of oppressive and brutal treatment of 
apprentices in England. The instances of in- 



26 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

JLirious treatment of slaves in the colonies are 
all recorded; thej seldom fail of being brought 
forward in debate, and enforced with an ex- 
aggerated eloquence. Are they numerous? or, 
where they have been marked by extraordinary 
violence or insensibility to suffering, are they 
recent? '' It is impossible," says a writer di- 
stinguished equally by his ability and fairness, 
*' to deny that the severity of the master has 
diminished." There has been, and is still, in 
progress, " a benign though insensible revolu- 
tion in opinion and manners." 

There is abundant and unexceptionable testi- 
mony to these facts ; but till any of them are 
controverted, to avoid prolixity, a little matter 
in the way of confirmation will suffice. 

What are, shortly, the expressed sentiments 
of the bishops, regular clergy, dissenting mini- 
sters, governors, generals, admirals, staff and 
other officers, and civilians ; themselves quite 
disinterested, but possessing the necessary op- 
portunities of personal observation ? 

BISHOPS AND REGULAR CLERGY. 

Extract of a Letter from the Bishop of Jamaica 
to Lord Bathurst, dated March 12, 1825. 

'' I am very happy in being able to assure 
your lordship, that a very general wish to ame- 



PLAINLY STATED. 27 

liorate the condition of the slaves, and to in- 
struct them in the principles of the estabHshed 
church, seems to pervade the great mass of pro- 
prietors ; and every facility is afforded me of 
visiting the several plantations." 

Ea^tract From the same to the same. Sept, 16, 

1825. 

'" I have the highest satisfaction in being able 
to assure your lordship, that the same good 
feeling which I had the pleasure to commu- 
nicate upon a former occasion, with regard to 
Kingston, continues to animate every part of 
the island which I have hitherto visited. The 
general result of our observations" (the bishop's 
and Mr. Archdeacon Pope's) " has been a hearty 
desire on the part of the proprietors generally, 
or their representatives, cheerfully to promote, 
as far as their limited means will allow, any 
measures which I have thought it my duty to 
suggest for the benefit of the church. Public 
meetings have been called in many parishes, 
and private subscriptions entered into, to pro- 
mote the same desirable object." 

From the same to the same, Feb, 20, 1826. 

'* I have lately visited tiie eastern and north- 
ern parishes of the island, and I am happy 



28 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

to announce to your lordship a growing dis- 
position for the institution of Sunday and paro- 
chial schools, which experience proves to be the 
only efficient means of instructing the slave and 
coloured population." 

From the same to the same, Sept. 1, 1826. 

After speaking of the " recent establishment 
of a large Sunday school by private contribu- 
tions," and soliciting the aid of his Majesty's 
Treasury to the erection of an additional place 
of worship, the bishop concludes as follows : " It 
is my sincere conviction that any seeming back- 
wardness in carrying into effect recommenda- 
tions of this nature, and having for their object 
the instruction and improvement of the lower 
classes of the people, arises, in the present state 
of this colony^ from a want of means rather than 
of inclination.*' 

Extracts of Letters from the Bishop of Barhadoes 
to Lord Bathurst 

Oct, 7, 1825. 
*' I have the honour to inform your lordship 
that on visiting the several islands within my 
diocese I was received throughout with every 
mark of public and private respect, accompanied 
with the assurance, on the part of the respective 



PLAINLY STATED. 29 

legislatures and proprietors, of their readiness 
to co-operate with me, to the utmost extent of 
their means, in the measures which I had the 
honour to propose." 

Oct. 31, 1825. 
" I cannot refuse myself the pleasure of re- 
questing your lordship's attention to the report 
from the parish of St. Lucy, Barbadoes. All 
of the plantations, with scarcely an exception, 
are stated to be, and many to have been for a 
long time, under religious instruction. I trust, 
my lord, that, under the divine blessing, the 
time is not far distant, when, through an in- 
crease of clergy and catechists, a similar re- 
port may be made from every parish within 
my diocese." 

November 5, 1825. 
*' 1 trust that your lordship will regard this 
liberal grant (,^2000 currency a-year for the 
parish of St. Michael, and <£1000 currency 
a-year to every other parish in the island) as 
a further proof of the good disposition existing 
in the island of Barbadoes (and I may, with 
truth, add, in every other island within my 
diocese) to extend and place on a more ef- 
fectual footing the several means of religious 
instruction." 



30 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

January Tj, 1827. 
" Your lordship will be particularly glad to 
hear that the feelings in Tobago towards my- 
self, and the measures which I proposed, were 
every thing which I could have wished, and 
that the system of catechetical instruction is 
gaining ground in every island." 

Extract of a Letter from the Rev, J, Mann, rec- 
tor of Kingston, to the Bishop of Jamaica, dated 
October 14, 1825. 

'* The aggregate number of persons confirmed 
by your lordship on the 3rd, 4th, and 6th 
days of October, 1825, in this city, is seven 
hundred and eighty-six. There were about 
one hundred and six white persons j the others 
were of colour and blacks." 

RELIGIOUS PERSONS. — DISSENTING MINISTER. 

The Wesleyan Missionary at Dominica, Mr, 
Catts. 

*' That gentleman gave a very favourable 
account of this island (Dominica), and repre- 
sented the prospect through all the remain- 
ing islands as bright and cheering to a degree 
never before witnessed in this part of the world. 



PLAINLY STATED. 31 

From all the planters, except those of the Ro- 
man Catholic persuasion, the ministers of reli- 
gion were now meeting the greatest encourage- 
ment and support, and the negro character was 
rapidly undergoing a most salutary change. The 
French slaves, however, were in a most debased 
state, ignorant and brutal; those belonging to 
English masters were a little more cultivated: 
all were baptized; a few married; many were 
taught; and much was hoped from the new 
school, just established, where children of all 
kinds and colours attended. The slaves were 
yet far from being in a state fit for freedom, 
and such a measure would be injurious to them; 
but they were in a course of mental and moral 
improvement, and, with a few exceptions, as will 
always be the case, there was a kindly feeling 
towards them on the part of the owners." — 
Third Report of the Commissioners of Legal 
Inquiry^ p. 5. 

GOVERNOR AND MILITARY OFFICER. GENERAL. 

Extract from Lord Combermere's Address to the 
Legislature of Barbadoes, 1818. 

" During my visits to the other West India 
islands, as commander of the forces, I have 
taken great pains personally to inform myself 



3^ THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

respecting the actual treatment of slaves ; and 
it was with the most sincere pleasure and gra- 
tification that I observed, almost universally, 
the greatest attention paid by planters to their 
domestic comforts, and the proper regulation 
of the labours of their slaves, &c." 

GOVERNOR AND NAVAL OFFICER. — ADMIRAL. 

Extract from the Address of Sir Charles Brisba?ie 
to the Assembly of St, Vincent. 1823. 

" From a residence of nearly fifteen years in 
this colony, I am happy to bear testimony to 
the kind and careful treatment of the slaves by 
every proprietor here." 

MILITARY OFFICERS. 

Abstract of some of the ewaminations o?i oath, taken 
before the Council ofBarbadoes^ under a Com- 
missioji granted by the Governor, for the 'pur- 
pose of ascertaining the actual condition of the 
Slave Population, early in 1823. 

Lieut.'Colonel Sir Edward Williams, K, C. B., 
Commandant of the Garrison, 

Has been resident in Barbadoes upwards of 
eight months, and has had opportunities of ob- 



*"^ PLAINLY STATED. S3 

serving the general treatment of the slaves, 
having purposely sought them, from an im- 
pression when he left England, that the slaves 
were badly treated in the colonies. Has visited 
plantations and hospitals ; found the latter par- 
ticularly attended to, and the young slaves well 
fed and treated; and firmly believes that, ge- 
nerally speaking, they are better off than the 
poor in England. Has observed that every 
family has a cottage, some poultry, a pig, &c. 
Firmly believes that a cruel ov^^ner of slaves 
would be held in the same abhorrence here, 
as he would be in England. 

Dr. Tegart, Inspector of Hospitals^ 

Has been resident upwards of two years; has 
not had frequent opportunities of observing the 
treatment of slaves ; on one estate looked mi- 
nutely into their condition, when that great 
number of slaves appeared to him to be well 
managed and comfortably taken care of. Has 
seen several others, but only superficially; when 
the external appearance gave him reason to 
think they were very comfortable. Has ob- 
served upon several of the estates their hospitals 
are very well conducted for the care of the sick. 
Came to Barbadoes prepossessed that the ne- 
groes were very harshly used, from what he 

D 



34 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

had heard and read : now finds that it is not 
so, and beUeves that they are generally kindly 
and well treated ; they appear to him better off 
than the labouring people in his own country 
(Ireland). Generally speaking, the slaves seem 
very contented. Decidedly thinks that a cruel 
master would be held in abhorrence. 

LL-CoL Popham, Quarter-Master-General, 

Has been resident in this island upwards of 
seven years; has had frequent opportunities 
of observing the treatment of slaves, and has 
reason to suppose, from his own observations, 
that the slaves are well treated ; has been in 
every parish in the island, and verily believes 
that the slaves are a happy and contented peo- 
ple, generally speaking. They appear cheerful 
in the performance of their work ; does not re- 
collect witnessing any severity practised upon 
them in the fields. The greater proportion of 
the houses of these people appeared comfort- 
able, having the advantages of poultry, pigs, 
and goats, and in many instances fruit-trees 
and a little garden : the Sunday markets de- 
monstrate that they enjoy the benefit arising 
from the produce and sale thereof. Great at- 
tention is paid to the rearing of children, and 
the old and infirm receive the kindest attention. 



PLAINLY STATED. 35 

Very few blacks are beggars, whereas the white 
population exhibits frequent instances, proving 
that the slaves are much better off, having no 
care or thought for the morrow, feeling con- 
fident that all their wants and comforts will be 
provided for. 

Lt.-CoL Berkely, Deputy Adjutant-General^ 

Has been resident in Barbadoes with some 
interruptions since 1806. Has not had an op- 
portunity of observing the condition of slaves in 
the country, from his professional duties con- 
fining him to the vicinity of the town. From 
what he could observe, the negroes appear to 
be as contented as any other labouring classes 
in any part of the world. Within the last few 
months has had an opportunity, for the first 
time, of seeing something of the interior detail 
of an estate, and, in his opinion, the system 
established was, as far as the preservation of 
discipline required, too lenient, and he has 
no doubt the same system very generally pre- 
vails among the respectable class of owners. 
Thinks that a cruel slave owner would be held 
in abhorrence here, as in England. 

Captain Cruttenden, Royal Artillery, Major of 
Brigade, 
Has been resident ten years. Has very fre- 

D 2 



36 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

quently had opportunities of observing the treat- 
ment of slaves on a great number of estates, for 
weeks and months at a time. Has observed 
the kind treatment they receive, and the cheer- 
fulness wdth which they perform their duty. 
Was never witness to an act of cruelty or op- 
pression, during the above period. Declares 
(what he has frequently asserted), that he con- 
siders them a much more happy race, better 
clothed and enjoying more comforts than the 
poor in that part of Ireland (Cork), where he 
was for a short time stationed. 

Captain Spink, Aide-de-Camp to the Commander 
of the Forces, 

Has been resident two years. Has had fre- 
quent opportunities of observing the treatment 
of slaves upon estates, which have led him to 
form an opinion that great humanity and kind- 
ness are shown to the slave population of Bar- 
badoes. His opinion is, that they are a happy 
and contented people, and do not consider 
themselves as oppressed and ill-treated. His 
reasons for forming this opinion are, that they 
are always cheerful and happy, and appear to 
be sensible of the great care taken of them. 
Certainly thinks that a cruel slave owner would 



PLAINLY STATED. 37 

be regarded with the same abhorrence in this 
colony, as in England. 

Civilian, (unconnected zvith the colonies,) Forme?- 
Secretary to the Governor of Grenada, 
The colonial Master in Chancery said — "I 
acted as secretary to General Maitland from 
June 1808, to the time he went to England, in 
1809; and again from 1810 to 1811. I was 
also secretary to General Ainslie for eight or 
ten months; so to General Shipley. I also 
acted as secretary to President Harvey. It is 
astonishing the reduced number of punishments, 
and improved treatment of the negroes, within 
the last few years, since the Abolition Act. 
They are infinitely better treated, better clothed, 
and better fed; but there is room for improve- 
ment still." — First Report of the Commissioners 
of Legal Inquiry, pp. 101 — 110. 

Chief Justice Wylley, St. Vincent, 
Informed the Commissioners that **he believed 
slaves in this island were generally well treated. 
A free, white man, who has no money," said he, 
"may plead his own cause as well as he can, while 
the humblest of our slaves is entitled, in such 
cases, to the assistance of counsel, retained for 
him at the expense of the colony. To be sure," 
said the same gentleman, "slaves are sold like 



38 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

cattle; but with whom does the blame lie?" — ■ 
Second Report, &;c. 

Mr, Woodley^ Attorney -General of St. Kitts, 

** The sentiments which appear formerly to 
liave prevailed regarding that class have, in a 
great measure, given way to the efforts of hu- 
manity, and the appeals to religion and justice 
which have been made in their behalf; an im- 
proved sense is now entertained very generally 
of what is due to them as men and fellow-sub- 
jects," &c. 

Answer^ No. 20, by the overseer of a planta- 
tion in Jamaica, to queries addressed to him 
by the Lord Bishop of Jamaica: — 

" Having been twenty years in this island, I 
am able to say, from experience, that the treat- 
ment of slaves is greatly improved — less labour 
is exacted from them, they have larger allow- 
ances of clothing, &c. than formerly, more time 
to cultivate their provisions, much less punish- 
ment is necessary, and a stricter attention is 
paid to whatever adds to their comfort and hap- 
piness, whether in sickness or in health. This 
great amelioration in their treatment, the Abo- 
lition of the African Slave Trade, more facility 
in attending public worship, and of resting on 
the Sabbath-day, have all tended to improve the 



PLAINLY STATED. 39 

I 

negro character, and to raise them in the scale 
of morality and civilization. When there are 
none but Creoles on estates, I am certain there 
will be a great improvement in the population, 
morals, and general behaviour of the slaves. 
— (Q. 15.) I have no doubt an industrious negro 
sells at least 10/. worth of ground provisions 
yearly, besides what he makes by hogs and 
poultry.''— (Q. 5.) 

So much for what has been called the " often 
repeated and often refuted pretence of actual 
improvement !" 

Is there, then, progressive advancement, the 
existence of an improved moral feeling, in our 
colonies ? For, if the colonist can satisfy the 
Parliament and people of England, that he is 
doing, I will only say, well^ at present, he may 
protest, with considerable effect, against all 
mischievous meddling and rage of interference. 
It was a maxim of one of the Grecian sages 
that " the better was the enemy of the good;" 
and the same sentiment is embodied in the 
homely, vernacular, expression, " leave well 
alone.'* Even where all is not absolutely good, 
a rash spirit of change is still to be deprecated. 
How little has yet been gained to the cause of 
humanity by the famous Abolition Act; owing, 



40 THE WEST INDIx\ QUESTION 

principally, to that great measure having been 
precipitated. Not one good result has it been 
attended with, that I am aware of, to the 
wretched Africans, still expatriated by thou- 
sands with more than the renewed horrors of 
the middle passage ; except, indeed, as there is 
reason to believe, the condition of the slave in 
any colony in the West Indies to be preferable 
to that of the African in his native country. 
Not that I would be understood to derogate 
from that great act of national justice. Nor 
would I be supposed to question its expediency; 
except in so far as it was undertaken suddenly, 
and without concert wdth other nations, and 
with no guarantees for their reciprocal forbear- 
ance. On the contrary, I consider the pre- 
servation of the islands to the present time, as 
well as their acknowledged improvement, to be 
in a great measure owing to that noble and dis- 
interested, but at the same time wise and con- 
servative measure. If the influx of Africans inta 
the Westlndies had continued muchlonger,atthe 
same prodigious rate as in the years immediately 
preceding the abolition, the preponderance of the 
black over the white population of the colonies, 
now excessive, would have become overwhelm- 
ing and destructive. It is from the era of the 
abolition of the slave trade that civilization and 



PLAINLY STATED. 41 

improvement (notwithstanding the incurable 
vice of absenteeism) has davi^ned upon the 
West Indies. " The severity of the planter has 
progressively diminished, in proportion as the 
slave has advanced from the state of an indig- 
nant and rebellious captive, to that of a domi- 
ciliated and tranquil bondsman." It was the 
newly-imported African who required to be 
coerced and treatedwith severity. When the im- 
portation was at an end, the master, in order to 
promote the increase, attended to the comforts 
of his (creole) slaves. Then, as was sure to be 
the case, when all the better and kinder feelings 
of our nature were brought into exercise, the 
masters themselves partook of the advantage, 
and entered upon a career of improvement. 
Their progress has since been rapid, and its 
traces are every where discoverable ; except, in- 
deed, to the averted eye of the anti-colonist. 
Look at the talent, the eloquence, the parlia- 
mentary tact, the business-like habits, the regu- 
lar proceedings, displayed by the legislatures of 
some of the principal colonies in their present 
contest with the parent state ! Do not these 
indicate an intellectual power, never before de- 
veloped in these islands? This circumstance 
alone, affords a sure test of the great compara- 
tive improvement. Will our own accompHshed 



4^ THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

debaters — will Messrs. Brougham and Denman, 
Wilberforce and Buxton, impugn these doc- 
trines ? I believe not. 

What is the result? That slavery in our co- 
lonies has been greatly softened — that it exists 
at present in the mildest form; but that there 
remain certain evils, inseparable almost from 
the condition of slavery. 

But it will be said, and I shall assent to the 
observation, that, supposing slavery to be greatly 
mitigated, and, admitting what has now been 
urged, to have gone far to establish that point, still 
it is not intended that slavery should be perpe- 
tual. The two Houses of Parliament, by their 
resolutions, stand pledged to its extinction. 
The state of slavery is eventually to be got rid 
of; and this must be taken as a settled point, 
not open to discussion or question. Be it so ! 
" The House of Commons," lam aware, " looks 
forward to its determination, at the earliest 
period, compatible with the well-being of the 
slaves themselves, with the safety of the colo- 
nies, and with the fair and equitable considera- 
tion of the interests of private property.'* 

In what way, is this determination of the state 
of slavery to be brought about; by what means 
effected? In another place and character I 
have said, by encouraging, 1st, voluntary; and 



PLAINLY STATED. 43 

2dly, constructive manumissions : the former, 
by removing every expense or difficulty with 
which they are at present attended; the latter, 
by a benignant interpretation of the laws re- 
specting freedom : the identical, and be it ob- 
served, the only modes resorted to (g) in old 
Rome, and in Old England, for the attainment 
of the same object; it never occurring to their 
legislators (profound as they were, and even 
astute to discover and avail themselves of every 
handle in favour of liberty) (h) to pass laws in a 
matter of property, operating in ^/2t7Vo5, and with- 
out providing compensation. This, however, is 
2d. The remedy proposed — the compul- 
sory manumission clause being the effective 
part of the scheme devised to secure the ex- 
tinction of slavery. Yet, conformably with 
the resolutions of Parliament, and regarding 
their true and genuine spirit, the operation 
of that measure could never have been in- 
tended to be immediate. It must have been 
meant to take effect remotely, though less 
tardily (i) than the course of voluntary and con- 
structive manumissions. By a determined, and 
be it observed, persevering, but at the same 
time judicious and temperate enforcement of 
certain measures (namely, measures of amelio- 
ration, not even now established in .more than 



44 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

one colony, and not then in existence), the 
House of Commons looked forward to a pro- 
gressive improvement in the slave population ; 
such as might prepare them for a participation 
in civil rights. The House was only anxious 
for the accoynplishment of this purpose at the 
earliest period compatible with the well-being 
of the slaves themselves, &c. &c.^ — fSee the re- 
solution ante.) Now, looking at the choice, 
and, as it has been said, the collocation of words 
in this resolution, is it not apparent that what 
the House was to look forward to could not have 
been immediately under its nose; that what 
was to be progressive, and attained by perse- 
verance, was not to be disposed of, currente ca- 
lamo ; that what required preparation, judgment, 
and temper, was not merely the composition of 
the next despatch ? No, sir ; it was far other- 
wise. It was felt, and virtually admitted, that the 
slave was not fit for freedom in his present 
state: a period was to be allowed for his gra- 
dual improvement; he was to be carefully pre- 
pared for a great moral change — to be studi- 
ously trained— to be slowly formed — for the 
enjoyment of freedom, and the admission to 
civil rights. Who could have believed that, 
with all this prospective care, this " prepara- 
tion," "progression," "perseverance," "care 



PLAINLY STATED. 45 

for well-being/' '' safety," and " equitable con- 
sideration of property/' in two short months, 
before the ameliorating measures were intro- 
duced in a single colony (into the only one in 
which they are yet completely in force), before 
their operation commenced, nay, at the same 
time, and unojiatu, with their recommendation, 
the measure of emancipation, without the mas- 
ter's concurrence, and to the prejudice of his 
creditor, would have commenced ? Who could 
have supposed that the whole to be required, 
would be the price of the slave (however pro- 
cured), without regard to the assent of the 
master, without regard to its probable effect on 
private property, without regard to the fitness 
of the slave for a participation in civil rights, 
and without any effectual security that the mo- 
ney, with which the freedom is purchased, 
should be honest acquisitions, the fruit of regu- 
lated industry? " It is time, and time only," 
says the author of * The West India Question 
practically considered,' " that can dispose of the 
question of the possibility of substituting free 
labour for slave labour." And he then proceeds 
to show that, in a given case, of the experiment 
being ^pressed upon a master, and his being 
called upon to part with a slave, for whose ser- 
vices he could not find a substitute, the price 



46 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

of the slave must be the price of a definite pro- 
portion of the planter's estate. But why is 
the " experiment to be pressed on ?'' Why call 
upon the master before '* time has disposed of 
the question ?" 

Besides this ground of opposition to the 
clause in question, (that its operation may com- 
mence immediately, without awaiting the con- 
templated improvement in the character of the 
slave population), many other objections have 
been urged, equally powerful, and, as it appears 
to me, quite insuperable. 

Such are the complaints : — 

That it is not conceived in the true spirit of 
the resolutions, which look with equal eye to 
the well-being of the slave and the interests of 
the master: it regards only the advantage of 
the slave, without a fair and equitable consider- 
ation of the interests of private property. 

That it does not look to the extinction of 
slavery by the same unexceptionable means, as 
before put an end to slavery in England. That 
it does not. look to an emancipation, of which 
the master is to be the willing instrument ; or, 
indeed, any instrument at all. That it gives 
the slave a direct inducement to enter upon a 
demoralizing course of life, to debase his cha- 
racter, in order to lower his value. That from 



PLAINLY STATED. 47 

the moment when all the effective people on an 
estate, (taken at one third of the whole gang) 
may be subtracted from the number of hands 
employed in the cultivation and manufacture 
of sugar, on payment of a sum of money, fixed 
by others, the injury to the master is direct 
and immediate, while his compensation is con- 
tingent and doubtful, — matter of implication 
and inference, collected from the resolutions 
not expressed by them, and at the best, alto- 
gether undefined. 

That the services of such slaves, so with- 
drawn, cannot be replaced by other slaves, or 
by free-labourers ; and, indeed, the place of 
some operatives, such as boilers, who require 
long practice to learn the art of making sugar, 
cannot be replaced at all. 

That, consequently, from the operation of 
this clause, the planter's crops will be dimi- 
nished, and in the end, his estate ruined. 

That the condition of the slave in the mean- 
time will not be bettered by his prematurely 
becoming free ; as from his repugnance to all 
sorts of labour, and the effect of a tropical cli- 
mate, which makes a state of repose the highest 
object of gratified ambition, he will fall into a 
listless torpor at first, and in a little time lead 
the life of a savage in the woods. 



48 THE WEST I^DIA QUESTION 

That, in fine, the manumission clause is not 
only oppressive and unnecessary, but futile 
and impracticable; corresponding precisely with 
what Mr. Fox predicted of any measure to 
emancipate the slaves, undertaken without the 
consent and concurrent feeling of all parties 
concerned, that it must be " not only mis- 
chievous in its consequences, but totally ex- 
travagant in its conception, as well as impracti- 
cable in its execution." 

The only reply made to these overwhelming 
objections has been that there is no foundation 
for such excessive alarm; that the purchase of 
manumissions by the agricultural slaves from 
the fruits of honest industry (when it is re- 
duced to these) will rarely happen : an admis- 
sion which, it appears to me, serves to show 
that the scheme of compulsory manumission, 
however specious (and I was one of the persons 
first captivated by it), is illusory. Again, it is 
said, that as the number of slaves brought to 
market diminishes, the prices which they fetch 
will continue to advance, and so there will be 
no injustice to the master. But if the price is 
thus to rise with the increase of manumissions, 
it will be soon beyond the possible reach of the 
slave, and the system must cease to work. 

Another and more important question re- 



PLAINLY STATED. 49 

mains— -if the proposed measure be not so 
unwarrantable an interference, so direct an in- 
vasion of private property, as to require com- 
pensation — on the instant There, the colonial 
members of the court of policy at Demerara, 
(see M. Van Berckell's speech), and the com- 
mittees of the legislatures of the islands, neither 
unreasonably nor unwisely, take their stand. I 
enter not into the practicability of free labour 
at a future period, influenced as that decision 
must always be, by a consideration of the then 
existing circumstances, i avoid entangling the 
subject in the labyrinths of political economy. 
It seems to me sufficient ground for the resist- 
ance of the colonists at the present time, that 
the experiment is new and hazardous; that the 
result is doubtful ; that the attempt at substi- 
tuting free labour for the ser'vices of the slave may 
he unsuccessful ; that in case of failure the mis- 
chief is irreparable; that for such irretrievable 
injury no compensation is provided, or as yet 
unequivocally pledged; that all ea^perience is 
against its success; that, zvith the fullest opportu- 
nities afforded, and the most pressing invitations 
given, no evidence was, or could be, adduced in its 
favour, '* Among the numerous cases of manu- 
mission to the present time," says the joint re- 
port of the council and assembly at St. Vincent, 

E 



50 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

'* we have been unable to trace in this colony 
a solitary instance of an agricultural slave ob- 
taining his freedom, and remaining for wages, 
or any other consideration, at his original occu- 
pation on a sugar estate. Nor do we think 
that any reasonable compensation in the shape 
of money wages would induce one of them, at 
the present moment, to return to the continuous 
although not onerous labour, necessary for the 
cultivation and manufacture of sugar. If this 
be the fact, and we challenge inquiry into and 
disproof of it, if possible, what prospect would 
the unfortunate planter in St. Vincent have 
before him, but that of depopulation of his 
once valuable estate, and consequent ruin to 
himself and family ?*' '* The council and as- 
sembly do not wish to contend that the day 
will never arrive, when these enactments may 
be reasonably and usefully applied. Another 
generation of slaves may safely participate in 
these advantages," &c. 

Let me not, however, be understood as as- 
serting, (what is by no means the case,) that 
the proposed measure of compulsory manu- 
mission, so objectionable in the first instance, 
was not greatly qualified in its progress. It 
was indeed very materially altered in its very 
nature and essence, when it was distinctly laid 



PLAINLY STATED. 51 

down, as a clear and irrefragable principle, that 
the valuation to be taken, included not merely 
the value of the slaves, but a fair estimate also 
of the loss which the owner might sustain, by 
the act of manumission. But it is denied by 
the colonists to be possible to fix a just prin- 
ciple of full compensation, and particularly with 
a view to existing contracts. They say that it 
is not practicable, at the period when slaves first 
obtain their manumission, to make a fair es- 
timate of the future deterioration and final loss, 
which may result from the sudden deprivation 
of an experienced and efficient slave. A second 
principle has been also introduced into the 
orders equally an improvement, viz. — that ma- 
numission should be the result and reward of 
habitual industry; that the boon conferred on 
the slave should be a right to purchase his 
freedom with the fruits of his honest earnings. 
It was also admitted advantageously, that a 
slave duly convicted of larceny should be in- 
capacitated from purchasing his freedom, at 
least for a certain number of years. This latter 
provision, too, the Berbice order has very con- 
siderably, if not objectionably, extended: "And 
provided also, that nothing shall extend, or be 
considered to extend, to entitle any such slave 
or slaves to purchase his, her, or their freedom 

E 2 



5:2 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

as aforesaid, where the slave or slaves proposed 
to be manumitted shall have been convicted of 
larceny, or shall have suffered corporal punish- 
ment under the sentence of any court of com- 
petent jurisdiction, within the period of seven 
years next preceding his, her, or their appli- 
cation for manumission as aforesaid." With this 
order, wrung with difficulty from the planter, 
the anti-colonist is discontented. 

If the proposed remedy then, (the measure 
of compulsory manumission,) is wholly ineffi- 
cacious—if the securities offered to the planter, 
while they leave him dissatisfied and gloomy, 
are more than sufficient to render the orders in 
council impotent, and even ridiculous, in the 
eyes of his opponents, what is to be done? Can- 
not the pledge given in the resolutions of Parlia- 
ment be redeemed? Must slavery be perpetual? 
Not if the mother country is sincere in her 
professions ; not if common error is to be atoned 
by common sacrifices ! If, indeed, humanity be 
only a name — if the liberality, so frequently 
invoked, is meant to be only at the expense of 
others — if lofty professions, and loud and ani- 
mated appeals, involve no sacrifices, import 
no self-denial, cost nothing, profit nothing — 
then slavery may be eternal ! If, on the other 
hand, the numerous petitions to the British 



PLAINLY STATED. 53 

legislature on this most interesting subject 
were spontaneous, the genuine burst of na- 
tional feeling, from a spring perennial and pure, 
the streams of an enlarged beneficence must 
be expected to flow unfailingly. Then may 
"a great moral revolution be effected;" then 
may ** slavery be extinguished by the least ex- 
ceptionable means, without ruin or revulsion 
to the master or the slave 1" 

What then is to be done? — Abandon the 
remedy proposed, because it is inadequate. In 
the withdrawing, or even in the failure of the 
measure of compulsory manumission, there is 
no humiliation or disgrace. I am ready to 
avow my own mistake. It was recommended 
by myself, in general terms, when proposing 
a new slave code for all the islands (code noir), 
I added, *' with an infusion of the Spanish ce- 
dulas." It was a scheme of promise; but there 
is much to dislike in the machinery, and it does 
not seem calculated to work well. Above all, it 
is inadequate. 

What then is, thirdly, the remedy re- 
quired? 

The slave, it seems now fully admitted, is not 
prepared and qualified for freedom in his present 
state. Religious instruction — mental cultiva- ^ 
tion — the elevation and improvement of the 



54f THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

moral character of the negro — emancipation 
from the chains of ignorance, superstition, and 
vice, ought manifestly to precede the mere cor- 
poral manumission of the slave. This indeed 
is in strict conformity with both the letter and 
the spirit, of the resolutions of Parliament. 

Manumission, therefore, upon a large scale 
should not take place immediately; yet it seems 
desirable that a period should be fixed for it, 
remote perhaps, but certain and indefeasible ; 
compensation being at the same time, by the 
most effectual means, secured to the master. 
Thus Vv^ould this distressing question at length 
be set at rest. The mode of providing and 
securing indemnity to the master justly takes 
precedence of the course to be pursued in the 
interval, or indeed, eventually, with the slave. 

The question then, should be determined by 
declaring freedom in the slave at some distant 
period, with certain reasonable conditions an- 
nexed, having first secured, by effectual pro- 
visions (equivalent to au actual vote of the 
money), a full compensation to the master. 
In the mean time, slaves should be attached to 
the soil, as the first step of improvement, and 
a day, or half day, according to the circum- 
stances, should be bought, to enable them to 
hold their market, so as to leave Sunday de- 



PLAINLY STATED. 55 

voted to religious observances and instruction. 
I am prepared to find the mention of « grant 
of money at first very unfavourably received. 
I shall frankly state, that it is certainly a star- 
tling proposition to those who are at all aware 
of the amount of this valuable property, even 
at the most moderate computation; but par- 
ticularly so, when the finances of the parent 
state are supposed to be in a somewhat de- 
pressed, or deranged, condition. But some con- 
siderations will be presently suggested, calcu- 
lated to mitigate this alarm, and to reconcile, 
1 hope, even you, sir, to the belief of its prac- 
ticability. 

The slave being confessedly not apt for free- 
dom in his present state, a certain period, it is 
agreed, must be allowed for preparing him for 
the transition, and fitting him for a participation 
in those civil rights enjoyed by other classes of 
his majesty's subjects. Let us suppose this pe- 
riod, so left indeterminate, to be taken at a 
quarter of a century, and that during that time 
the compulsory clauses should be abandoned, 
and the colonists secured from all further 
molestation and vexatious interference. I do 
not suppose that, at the present crisis of re- 
duced returns and ruined prospects of the 
West Indians, slaves would be valued at many 



56 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

years' purchase. I assume, therefore, that after 
twenty-five years of quiet enjoyment under the 
circumstances I am about to mention, the re- 
version might be purchased, in most cases, on 
pretty easy terms. Again, if the conditions, 
recommended to be annexed to the grant of 
freedom, embraced the performance of certain 
duties, as cultivation of the soil, manufacture of 
sugar, &c. for a certain time, at moderate and 
stated wages (out of which the rent for the negro's 
cottage and land would have to be deducted), 
such regulations might avail very considerably, 
in reducing the value of the reversionary interest. 

If I am asked to point out the practicable 
" ways and means" of effecting this acknow- 
ledged good, to invade your province, sir, and 
show the productive fund, I shall not evade the 
difficulty, as Lord Chatham did, when pressed 
by Mr. Grenville, by dwelHng on the doleful 
burden, ** tell me where, — gentle shepherd, 
tell me where?'' — but, with the earnestness and 
sincerity due to a momentous subject, point 
out, to the best of my ability, the available re- 
sources. 

First, then, I would humbly suggest (not daring 
to ask the permission, but meekly imploring the 
pardon of the Chancellor of the Exchequer), 
that the object might be in a great measure 



PLAINLY STATED. 57 

effected, by a partial remission of the sugar du- 
ties, during this period of a quarter of a century. 

Secondly, I would respectfully offer to his 
appeased consideration, that for the purchase 
of the reversion in slaves, after twenty-five years 
of unmolested labour, unrestrained production, 
and unfettered traffic, with the duty on sugar 
reduced (dare I say it?) one half; a vote of four 
or five millions might, perhaps, be adequate, 
for the intended purpose. 

Thirdly, that such grant of four or five 
millions should be invested in Parliamentary 
Commissioners, with full power to dispose of 
the same, most advantageously for the objects 
in view, reporting their proceedings annually; 
— all such reports to be laid before the House of 
Commons. 

Fourthly, that a saving would ultimately, 
though I admit, remotely accrue, very consider- 
able in a pecuniary, and very important in a 
moral point of view, from the reduction of the 
military establishments at present necessary on 
thege unhealthy stations; when the black pop u-^ 
lation, become interested in the soil and parti* 
cipant of civil blessings, should grow, by degrees, 
to be safely trusted to form a national militia 
for the defence of the islands. 

Fifthly, that at a period, also distant, but not 



58 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

the less certain, an increased market will be 
opened for our home manufactures, by a dense 
population converted into a flourishing pea- 
santry, with successful mechanics and coloured 
tradesmen acquiring artificial wants as they 
occasionally rise in the scale of society. 

Lastly, need I mention, to a vigilant and 
prudent government, the advancement of the 
shipping interest, consequent upon improved 
agriculture and extended commerce in the (k) 
colonies ? 

But it must not be concealed that it would be 
further necessary, in order to obviate a difficulty, 
of a serious nature, which presents itself upon 
the threshold, to adopt a considerable exten- 
sion of the plan. The proprietor has seldom a 
free control over his estate. Few plantations 
are unencumbered with debt, and the debt itself 
obstructs improvement. It would be necessary, 
therefore, that the commissioners intrusted with 
the disposal of the grant before mentioned 
should be empowered to buy up the debt, where 
it could be advantageously purchased. If I am 
asked whether I believe such measure could be 
effected; speaking as a very humble individual, 
I answer, I believe it could. All reflecting men 
connected with the colonies, now perceive the 
risk and difficulty of their situation. All are. 



PLAINLY STATED. 59 

or ought to be, prepared to make sacrifices; 
the planter, because he has either an interest 
strictly nominal, or holds by the most precarious 
of tenures ; the merchant, because he would 
be often too happy to receive a moiety of his 
demand to get rid of his enormous advances ; 
the government, to secure its sources of re- 
venue, — its customs, duties, imports, exports, 
and the inauspicious four and a half per cent. 
Whether the planter were assisted by the loan 
of money (the better mode) to pay off his 
mortgage or judgment debt, or the government 
agent stood in the place of the mortgagee, 
charging a more moderate interest, and a less 
exorbitant commission, it would alike be com- 
petent to the government to make what rea- 
sonable terms it pleased for the progressive 
improvement of the slaves, till they were fit 
for complete and absolute freedom. So, indeed, 
in the event of the purchase of the reversion- 
ary interest in slaves after a given period, 
stipulations would, of course, be introduced, for 
their amelioration and instruction during the 
term. What indeed obstructs these improve- 
ments now? — the debt! What creates the im- 
pediment, at present existing, to the measure of 
attaching slaves to the soil? — the merchant's 
demand. What is in the way of giving the 



60 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

slaves another day to cultivate their provision 
grounds? — the bond, the judgment, the mort- 
gage deed. What checks the manumission of 
slaves for good behaviour, length of service, 
number of children? — the obligation to the 
creditor. Upon this part of the subject, I am 
gratified to find that I have the full concurrence 
of Mr, Mathison, whose work, the fruit of ex- 
treme good sense, long experience, and practical 
knowledge of the subject, I have only recently 
met with. He anticipates me, I find, in this 
recommendation, of which he points out other 
advantages; as, for instance, that the system 
of free trade would be greatly promoted by such 
a measure. '* Assist the planter," says he, '* by 
loans of money to discharge the mortgage debt, 
then there immediately arises a new order of 
things, and the way is fairly laid open for the 
operation of a liberal system in the trade of those 
colonies. It may be confidently stated that one 
million sterling money would be more than suf- 
ficient for this valuable work." 

' A period then being allowed for fitting the 
slave for freedom, and such period being as- 
certained and fixed at a quarter of a century, 
and the means and mode of indemnifying the 
master having been duly considered, it remains 
to inquire into the disposal of the slaves at the 



PLAINLY STATED. 6l 

determination of such period, and their treat- 
ment intermediately. It is natural to suppose 
that, previous to any dealing for the reversion- 
ary interest in slaves, a mutual understanding 
would be come to, what should be the plan of 
instruction, the opportunities afforded, the pre- 
paration entered on, — in a word, the course pur- 
sued. The measures of improvement settled, 
strong laws should be framed to enforce these 
regulations, and efficient courts created, to 
secure the execution of such laws. 

First, then, let the government begin with a 
solemn and explicit declaration of its intentions, 
making known its real and final determination, 
prescribing the intended course, with its exact 
limits and end. All slaves should, at the same 
time, be declared subjects of the king, and 
under his protection and that of the common 
law, and attached to estates from that day; and 
in return for the protection afforded them by 
his majesty's government, required to pay obe- 
dience to the proprietor of the estate to which 
they belong, under certain regulations and re- 
strictions to be promulgated. When they are 
freed, after a stated period, it should be with 
certain conditions annexed, of cultivating the 
soil, and manufacturing the staple of the 
country, on receiving fixed allowances, and 



62 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

they should then be called plantation labourers. 
I say, on receiving certain allowances, because, 
at this period, it will be politic to foster local 
attachments, in order to detain them on estates, 
and to give them, as much as possible, a common 
interest and actual sympathy with the master. 
With this view, it is desirable (I am supposing 
their evil habits eradicated, and their moral cha- 
racter improved) that they should be paid for 
their services in produce; in other words, should 
receive a proportion of the crop. Cultivating 
the soil, partly for their own benefit, they will 
become interested in the maintenance of order, 
and be less capable, and, what is of no slight 
importance, less suspected, of designs to subvert 
the established institutions of the colony; for 
they will have acquired, what has been called, a 
stake in the country. Then, as they advance 
from barbarism to civilization, in a course 
marked by moral improvement, — marry, have 
families, find motives to exertion, and acquire 
habits of industry, the experiment (I cannot 
call it the system) of free labour, the proba- 
tionary term expired, will come in due order 
to receive a trial, under the most favourable 
auspices. 

When the political economist contends that 
no free person in a tropical climate will labour 



PLAINLY STATED. 63 

SO hard as is necessary for the production of 
sugar without some stimulus, compulsion, or 
coercion, physical or moral, he is perfectly cor- 
rect in his facts, and equally philosophical in his 
reasonings. But let the less skilful disputant 
beware of a topic involving dangerous conces- 
sions. Where is the colonist prepared to admit 
that the labour of the present cultivator of the 
soil is excessive and painful; that he performs 
it sullenly and with the utmost repugnance; 
that, according to some of the distorted pictures 
I have seen of West India slavery, it is only got 
out of him " at the smack of the whip?" Will 
he not rather contend that a "child of the sun," 
adapted to bear the heat by his frame and tem- 
perament, to the negro, the toil is comparatively 
light, that in ordinary cases he performs it 
without depression of spirits, and in crop time 
with cheerfulness? — Undoubtedly the state most 
agreeable to the mere animal, man, in a tropical 
climate, is a state of repose. Climate certainly 
has great influence upon both whites and blacks : 
labour in the daytime is painful : the European is 
prone to ennui; the African falls asleep, as he 
dresses you or waits at table. But when the 
moral character of the negro is gradually ele- 
vated; when to his strong local attachments, 
is added the sweet flow of the natural affec- 



64 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

tions ; when, with the force of example and 
excited emulation, the innate love of improve- 
ment and order begins to develop itself; when, 
with confirmed habits of industry, comes the 
delight in the acquisition of property, the love 
of the pleasures, the comforts, the consideration 
and consequence, that money can command; 
-—then, and certainly I believe, not before, the 
desire of bettering the condition, which nakedly 
and in the abstract, is too feeble a motive to 
rouse the savage to exertion, will operate power- 
fully upon the neophyte, and be it remembered, 
with a force constantly increasing, as he ad- 
vances in his progress to civilization. What 
has been the result of the first application of a 
moral stimulus— the experiment of task- work? 
I can confidently answer, from the highest 
authority, as established by daily experience, 
that, in those colonies where task-work obtains, 
the labour is performed with the greatest ease 
and alacrity. 

. Thus by slow degrees, and cautious steps of 
improvement, may these unfortunate bondsmen 
be safely converted into an industrious, virtuous, 
and contented peasantry, as the villeins en gros 
and villeins regardant of our early history, were 
turned into English copyholders; while, by ex- 
tinguishing bad passions, and absurd and hate- 



PLAIN tY StAt^m 



65 



M prejudices among the whites, the colourEa 
people may be raised into a flourishing middle 
order J furnishing together, in process^ of time, 
a powerful force, for the defence of each colony, 
consuming numerous articles of dress and bi- 
jouterie, and creating new markets for our de- 
pressed manufactures. If the people of colour, 
increasing in commercial enterprise and success, 
should extend their territorial acquisitions, pur- 
chase by degrees the principal properties of the 
islands, and become eventually the chief, or in- 
deed the sole, proprietors of the soil, I should 
look upon such an event as the euthanasia of the 
British West Indies ! ^ 

As to the measures of amelioration, and the 
course to be pursued to prepare the slave for 
ultimate freedom, other difficulties surmounted, 
I do not anticipate any very serious difference 
of opinion. Supposing the compulsory manu- 
mission clause to be abandoned, I do not think 
that there exists any general or strong disin- 
clination in the colonists to adopt the greater 
part of the remaining regulations recommended 
to them from England ; subject of course to some 
essential modifications, rendered necessary in 
different islands by local circumstances. They 
are, indeed, for the most part, I have no hesi- 



F 



66 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

tation in saying, unquestionable improvements. 
Yet may the objections of the colonists in par- 
ticular instances, or to specific enactments, be 
quite reasonable and well founded. For ex- 
ample, the council of St. Lucia say, " One 
suggestion alone have they considered them- 
selves bound to reject; that by which it is re- 
quired that the property of a slave, dying in- 
testate, and without lawful heirs, should revert 
to the crown, to the prejudice of the owner. A 
few months since, the whole of the property 
which now belongs to a slave, belonged by law 
to the owner. This, they have voluntarily, and 
in the most ample manner, given up, having 
declared, in unequivocal terms, that, in all that 
relates to the acquirement, administration, or 
disposal of his private property, the slave was, 
with the single exception under consideration, 
to be declared free. All these sacrifices they 
have made /or the slaveys interest; further they 
do not think themselves warranted in going; 
they cannot conscientiously consent to a mo- 
dification and consequent sacrifice of property 
with reference to which the principle that has in- 
Jiuenced them throughout their labours, no longer 
applies.*' 

The court of policy at Demerara justifies its 



PLAINLY STATED. 67 

reluctance to grant to the slave the right of 
holding property in land, having declared him 
competent ''to purchase, acquire, possess, hold, 
enjoy, alienate, or dispose of money, cattle, im- 
plements or utensils of husbandry, or house- 
hold furniture, or other effects of such like 
nature," because (inter alia) ** of the consequent 
liability to imprisonment for taxes and other 
charges." *' There would," they say, " be a well 
grounded expectation that the master would 
pay the debt, in order to recover his services; 
and thus the master would, in point of fact, be- 
come liable for the debts of his slave." 

The council and assembly of St. Vincent 
object to '* so unconstitutional a measure as 
placing the disposal of their entire property in 
the ha^^ids of a single judge and protector. In 
questions of property, they say, as well as of 
life, British subjects have been taught to be- 
lieve in the necessity, or rely on the efficacy, of 
the interposition of a jury/' 

The council and assembly of Tobago are out- 
raged, at the proposed penalty on a person a 
second time convicted of unlawfully punishing 
a slave. The former observe : " Laws should 
have penalties proportioned to the moral guilt 
contracted in the breach of them; but in this 



68 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

instance the moral guilt may be so small, while 
the penalty attached is so monstrous, that your 
committee think no sane legislator, cognizant 
of the subject, could, for a moment, think of 
connecting them together." The latter say, 
through their speaker: " The offence, at the 
utmost, can be no more than assault and bat- 
tery ; but we venture to assert, it is the first 
time in the history of legislation, since it be- 
came a science, that it ever entered into the 
contemplation of a statesman to punish such 
an offence with a confiscation of all a man's 
property." 

But, assuming the measures recommended 
to be all of them improvements, and supposing 
the improvements adopted in every island, and 
at last, passed into a law : however sound in 
principle, — however calculated to be salutary in 
practice, — however just or necessary these en- 
actments, — they would wholly fail of their effect. 
I hazard this prediction of the future from an 
attentive consideration of the past. The best 
laws will avail nothing without a due execution. 
There is now a defective administration. The 
reformation, I take the liberty of saying, (not 
dogmatically but decidedly), has hitherto be- 
gun at the wrong end. It is first necessary to 



PLAINLY STATED. 69 

provide strong, efficient, independent courts of 
justice; then carefully to revise and amend the 
laws. In reconstructing' the latter, the cardi- 
nal point is to look to the operative principle ; 
to frame laws that will execute themselves. Is 
it seriously intended to afford the slave pro- 
tection ? Secure to him the equal administra- 
tion of just laws. Insist, without delay, on 
the same mode of trial for slaves in criminal 
cases, as for free persons. First, do legal right; 
reform the administration; purify the judi- 
cature: or be assured that it is not of the 
slightest importance whether or no, you effect 
any alteration in the law. In sending out to 
the colonies a new personification of abstract 
Justice, let due care be taken that her eyes are 
effectually bandaged, so that she cannot see the 
distinction of colour; let her scales be even; 
and her sword two-edged! 

There is another evil to be remedied, to which 
a transient allusion may suffice. Justice, though 
firm and even-handed, must not be of a wild, 
military character; as when, a handy fellow 
having committed a crime, 

" Impartial justice in his stead, did 
Hang an old woman that was bed-rid." 



70 THE WEST INDIA QUESTION 

It was ** the deliberate opinion of his Ma- 
jesty's Commissioners (of legal inquiry) that 
the foundation of every improvement, both as 
regards the black and the white population of 
these colonies, must be laid in an improved 
administration of justice, and in the admission 
of slave evidence.*' 

These changes effected ; the pure and equal 
administration of justice secured; the law itself 
respecting slaves, revised and softened ; the 
slave attached to estates, and consequently the 
cruel separation of families by sales, whether 
judicial or voluntary, prevented; task-work in- 
troduced, and the labour of the slave thus ren- 
dered comparatively light and cheerful ; the 
duration of slavery limited ; the compensation 
of the master secured; the colonist reconciled 
to the ameliorating measures of government, 
by the provision of a fund expressly devoted 
to his indemnification ; confidence restored, 
and credit revived : the pledge of government 
(which I, for one, do not expect them wholly 
to abandon), will be redeemed; the course 
will, indeed, be entered on, so truly stated by 
tlie able and unprejudiced writer I have so 
often with pleasure quoted, as the only one to 
be pursued: — " the adoption of such practical 



PLAINLY STATED. 71 

/ 

measures as will not supersede injury by injury, 
but do good by certain though gradual pro- 
gression." 

I have the honour to remain. 

With the truest respect, 
&c. &c. &c. 
FORTUNATUS DWARRIS. 



The Right Hon. Henry Goulburn, 
Chancellor of the Exchequer. 



NOTES. 



(a) To Lord Bathurst (I take the liberty of saying) justice 
has not been done. On the contrary, the former secretary of 
the colonies has been systematically attacked and loaded with 
unmerited obloquy. The noble lord does not stand in need 
of my vindication. But his own high-minded indifference to 
calumnious attacks will justify the interference of others in less 
conspicuous stations. To me, it has always been incompre- 
hensible, how the meed of popular applause, so deservedly and 
ungrudgingly bestowed upon Mr. Peel, for his wise and liberal 
measures, in the reform of the criminal law of this country, 
should be withheld from Lord Bathurst ; who, with equal 
zeal and sincerity, tempered with equal discretion and pru- 
dence, was steadily engaged, in his own proper department, 
in a similar improvement of the laws and judicial institutions 
of the colonies. I will instance one act of Lord Bathurst's ' 
administration, which should alone, in my judgment, entitle 
the noble lord to the respect and gratitude of all true friends 
of humanity and justice. I allude to an order in council, re- 
moving the restrictions and disabilities before imposed upon 
a certain class of persons in one of our islands : the eman- 
cipation, if I may so express it, of the free-coloured people of 
Trinidad. I select this particular measure, because it is com- 
plete in itself, and carried into full effect 5 and not, like other 
suggested improvements, only executory. 



NOTES. 73 

(King's Arms.) 
Trinidad. 

By his Excellency Sir Ralph James Woodford, Bart, 
Goveraor and Commander-in-Chief in and over the 
said Island and its Dependencies, Vice-Admiral of 
the same, &c, &c. &c. 

(L. S.) Ralph James Woodford. 

A Proclamation, 

Whereas the several communications which have been ad- 
dressed by the free people of colour in this Island to the 
Right Honourable the Earl Bathurst, K. G. His Majesty's 
Principal Secretary of State for the Department of the Colo- 
nies, and afterward to His Majesty's Commissioners of In- 
quiry into the Administration of Justice in the West Indies 5 
and also the communications which have been received by 
his Lordship from the Governor ; and those which were ad- 
dressed to the Commissioners by the Attorney- General of 
Trinidad, together with various Spanish and British Ordi- 
nances, all having reference to the rights and privileges claimed 
by that portion of His Majesty's subjects, have been brought 
under His Majesty's consideration. 

And whereas His Majesty's Commissioners have reported 
their opinion to be, that, according to the Royal Cedula, 
issued by the King of Spain, on the S^th day of November, 
1783, the free people of colour, who, as planters and heads 
of families, established themselves in the island, and obtained 
assignments of land, under the authority of that Cedula, and 
resided five years in that island, and bound themselves to an 
entire residence therein, and likewise the descendants of 
these, are entitled to all the rights and privileges of naturaliza- 
tion, and in consequence are eligible to all public employ- 
ments, and to posts in the militia: His Majesty has been 



74 NOTES. 

pleased to declare his most gracious approval and confirma- 
tion of the said opinion, and to signify the Royal pleasure, 
that the said rights and privileges be enjoyed by those in- 
dividuals and their descendants, and the same is hereby de- 
clared accordingly. 

And whereas His Majesty's free-coloured subjects, who 
may have obtained grants of land otherwise than under the 
authority of the Royal Cedulaof the 24th of November, 1783, 
are entirely excluded, according to the legal construction of 
that Cedula, from the benefits conferred by it; and, as such 
exclusion is not in accordance with His Majesty's gracious 
intentions towards them, it is His Majesty's pleasure that the 
same rights and privileges which are derived by those to 
whom, or to whose progenitors, assignments of land have been 
made under the Cedula, shall be equally enjoyed by all free 
persons of colour, being grantees of land, or descendants of 
grantees, provided that either they or their parents separately, 
shall have completed a twenty-one years* term of residence in 
Trinidad, or that the number of years which their parents, 
collectively with the number of years which they themselves 
shall have resided, shall amount to twenty-one years or more. 

Given under ray hand, and the great seal of the island, at 
Government House, in the Town of Port of Spain, this fifth 
day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight 
hundred and twenty-six, and in the sixth year of His Ma- 
jesty's reign. 

By his Excellency's command, 

Frederick Hammet, 

Acting Secretary. 



NOTES. 15 

(King's Arms.) 
Trinidad. 

By hi3 Excellency Sir Ralph James Woodford, Bart. 
Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over the 
said Island and its Dependencies, Vice- Admiral 
thereof, &c. &c. &c. 

(L. S.) Ralph James Woodford. 

A Proclamation. 

Whereas, for the relief and satisfaction of all His Majesty's 
free coloured subjects whatsoever, in the Island of Trinidad, 
and in consideration of the representations which they have 
made, of the manner in which certain orders and regulations 
bear upon persons of their condition. His Majesty has been 
pleased to direct, that a proclamation shall be issued, revoking 
and rendering of none effect the following instruments, or 
such portions of them as are hereinafter specified : 

It is hereby ordered, proclaimed, and declared, that from 
and after the date hereof, the following instruments, or such 
parts of them as are hereinafter specified, shall be revoked 
and rendered of none effect : 

First, — So much of the first article, under the title, " Des 
Alguacils," of General Picton's instructions to Commandants, 
of 20th of August, 1800, as imposes the office of Alguacils 
exclusively upon free people of colour. 

Second, — The Order of the Governor in Council of the 15th 
August, 1807, imposing a tax of sixteen dollars upon balls 
given by coloured persons. 

Third, — The Order of the Governor in Council of the 29th 
of November, 1804, directing, '* Free coloured persons and 
slaves to retire to their homes at half-past nine o'clock at 
night," in so far as relates to free coloured persons. 

Fourth, — The Order of the Governor, in concurrence with 
his Assessor and the Alcaldes in ordinary, of the 12th Sep- 



76 NOTES. 

tember, 1810^ respecting the police of Port of Spain, together 
with the explanatory regulation of the 18th of the same 
month, except in so far as relates to slaves found in the 
street at night, without passes from their owners. 

Fifth,— The Regulation of the 30th June, 1813, establish- 
ing the fees to be received for passes in the office of the 
Government Secretary, in so far as it creates a distinction 
between those to be received from white persons, and those 
to be received from free coloured persons. 

Sixth, — An Order of the Superior Court of the 3rd of August, 
1819, requiring parties to describe their condition, in their 
petitions to the tribunals. 

Seventh, — An Order of the Governor, of the 11th of April, 
1821, promulgating a schedule of fees to be charged by me- 
dical practitioners in the colony. 

Given under my hand, and the great seal of the island, at 
Government House, in the Town of Port of Spain, this fifth day 
of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred 
and twenty six, and in the sixth year of His Majesty's reign. 

By his Excellency's command, 

Frederick Hammet, 

Acting Secretary. 

(b) Meaning discussions with reflecting, enlightened, dis- 
passionate, high-minded persons, of all parties j among whom 
it is an act of justice, of duty, and of pleasure, to include and 
mention by name, my friend (if he will allow me so to call 
him) Mr. James Stephen, jun. 

(c) The latest illustration of this subject is aflforded by the 
recent Report on the subject of Titles to Lands in Trinidad. 
It was contended by the Governor that, by the colonial law 
!of Spain (that is, the law of the Indies), lands granted by the 



NOTES. 77 

Crown were liable to resumption for defect of, or for partial, 
cultivation. This was at a time when cultivation could only 
have been carried on by slaves. Upon this principle occu- 
piers were compelled by the proclamation of the present 
Governor to place negroes upon their lands, in a proportion 
of one for eYery Jive quarrees, in conformity, it was said, both 
to the Royal Cedula, and to the general law of Spain. 

{d) See Mr. Barham's unanswerable pamphlet, and "The 
West India Question Practically Considered." The latter 
writer adds: '* After this, not many persons will be disposed 
to contend that Great Britain has not had at least an equal 
share, in establishing slavery, with those who happen now to 
be the actual owners of slaves !" 

(e) On the suppression of the religious orders, and the 
appropriation of their revenues to the general purposes of 
the government, by the Emperor Joseph II., the author of 
the Life of Napoleon Bonaparte, in tracing the remote causes 
of the French Revolution, justly observes : " It had some- 
thing in it to flatter the feelings of those of the Reformed re- 
ligion ; but, in a moral point of view, the seizing upon the 
property of any private individual or public body is an in- 
vasion of the most sacred principles of public justice, and 
such spoliation cannot be vindicated by urgent circumstances 
of state necessity, or any plausible pretext of state advantage 
whatsoever : since no necessity can vindicate what is in it- 
self unjust, and no public advantage can compensate a breach 
of public faith." In the progress of the Revolution " there 
was one order in the kingdom which, although it had joined 
largely and readily in the sacrifices o( the day of dupes, was 
still considered as indebted to the state, and was doomed to 
undergo an act of total spoliation. The clergy had agreed, and 
the assembly had decreed on the 4th of August, that the tithes 



78 NOTES. 

should be declared redeemable at a moderate price by the 
proprietors subject to pay them. This regulation ratified 
at least the legality of the clergy's title 3 nevertheless, in vio- 
lation of the public faith thus pledged, the Assembly, three 
days after, pretended, that the surrender of the tithes had 
been absolute, and that, in lieu of that supposed revenue, the 
nation was only bound to provide decently for the administra- 
tion of divine worship. It was in vain that the clergy ex- 
claimed against these acts of rapine and extortion j in vain 
that they resounded in the hall, the declaration solemnly 
adopted, that property was inviolable, save upon full com- 
pensation. It was to little purpose that Mirabeau was re- 
minded of his language, addressed to the Emperor Joseph 
upon a similar occasion: '^ Despise the monks/ he had said, 
' as much as you will, but do not rob them. Robbery is 
equally a crime, whether perpetrated on the most profligate 
atheist, or the most bigoted capuchin.' " 

(y) See Mr. Smith of Southam's benevolent plan for 
parish dispensaries ; a scheme well deserving the serious at- 
tention of those humane and excellent persons, who are ex- 
tensively capable, as well as sincerely desirous, of bettering 
the condition of the poor. 

(g) See, upon this subject, my colleague Mr. Henry's ex- 
cellent little work, entitled a Treatise on Manumissions, 
containing points and doctrines from the Roman law, appli- 
cable (or easily to be made so) to all colonies; while a 
Spanish fuero (custom) could only have a moral influence 
beyond its legal operation, in the Spanish colonies. Ac- 
cordingly we find it observed by the planters of Deroerara 
and the old English islands, in stating their objections to the 
compulsory manumission clause, that to force upon them a 
principle entirely new, and as they think highly objectionable,. 



NOTES. 79 

is a measure more harsh^ oppressive, and unjust, than it would 
be considered merely to give increased effect to an existing 
law, as in the case of Trinidad. 

{k) See Hakewell and CressweW, arguendo: 3 vol. State 
Trials, proceedings relating to the liberty of the subject. 

(i) One of the undoubted effects of the compulsory manu- 
mission clause will be to check, if not to put a complete 
end to, voluntary manuriiissions. How they were increasing 
may be perceived from the following statistical table for 
the island of St. Lucie, transmitted to Lord Bathurst by M. 
Jeremie, first president of the council, the very able, learned, 
and judicious compiler of a new slave-code for that island. 

Manumissions from 1822 to 1825 : 
Manumissions, 1822 about 28. 
1823 „ 100. 
„ 1824 ,, 150 acts of manumission 3 many 

of which will have contained the affranchissement of several 
individuals 3 for in 1823 the number of persons freed amounted 
to 212 J in 1825, supposed about the same." 

M. Jeremie adds the following explanatory remarks : *' The 
only effectual way of serving the slave is to reduce the ex- 
pense. Since the tax on manumission was in the first place 
reduced, then entirely withdrawn, enfranchisements here in- 
creased in the number of upwards of four to one." 

Is not the " better an enemy of the good," in this in- 
stance? 

{k) It is highly gratifying to^nd a liberal and enlightened 
statesman, like Mr. Huskisson, acknowledging the value and 
importance of our now depreciated colonies. It is satisfactory 
too, to find him not unmindful that it is British capital which 



80 NOTES. 

has been so largely invested in these distant possessions; 
and that the impending ruin of those establishments, which 
have contributed so essentially to the extent and prosperity of 
our navigation and commerce, concerns London and Liver- 
pool, Bristol and Glasgow, much more than the islands of the 
chain of the Antilles ! 



THE END, 



LONDON: 

PRINTED BY THOMAS DAVISOK, WHlTEmiAHS. 



