LETTER 



ADDRESSED TO THE 



EDITOR OF THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER, 



BY REV. SAMUEL J. MAY. 



BOSTON: 
PRINTED BY GARRISON & KNAPP, 

1835. 



-J - / ,: ).<3 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2011 with funding from 

Associates of the Boston Public Library /The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/letteraddressedt02mays 



MR. MAY'S LETTER. 



To the Editors of the Christian Examiner : — 

Gentlemen — It was with no little pain 
that I read, in the July number of the Ex- 
aminer, the remark of the reviewer of Prof. 
Palfrey's Sermons' respecting Abolitionists, 
'ardent but mistaken philanthropists,' as he 
calls us ; and also the quotation from one of 
the sermons, to which the remark is prefa- 
tory. We are so use to being misrepresent- 
ed and abused in the common, licentious 
newspapers, that we have ceased to be dis- 
turbed by misrepresentation and abuse from 
that quarter. It is not, however, a light mat- 
ter, in our estimation, that a grave periodical 
like the Examiner has lent its extensive in- 
fluence to fix in the public mind the unjust 
suspicion, that we intend or wish to interfere 
in any improper manner with ' the constitu- 
tion of governments, or the personal rights 
of individuals.' The language of Prof. Pal- 
frey, too, will doubtless be quoted again as a 
censure upon those against whom his review- 
er has directed the remark, whether he so 
intended it or not. You will therefore, I 
trust, permit me to be heard in reply. 

The real sentiments and purposes of Abo- 
litionists have been so often, so fully and 
explicitly stated to our fellow-citizens, that 
he is inexcusable, who takes up a mere re- 
port respecting them, and proceeds there- 
from to pronounce our condemnation. This 
is particularly unbecoming in one of the 
Unitarian Community, which have so loudly 



complained of the injustice of a similar pro- 
cedure, in reference to their opinions and 
purposes. I therefore respectfully request 
the writer of the review before me, to peruse 
with attention the official accounts of the 
formation of the New-England Anti-Slavery 
Society — of the first annual meeting of the 
Providence Society — the Address of the 
New-York Anti-Slavery Society — and, more 
than either, the proceedings of the National 
Convention held in Philadelphia, December, 
1833, with the ' Declaration of Sentiments 
and Purposes.' Let him read these with 
care, and then specify, if he is able, one pur- 
pose of the Abolitionists, which may not be 
prosecuted, in perfect consistency with our 
duties as citizens of this Republic ; and in 
equal consistency with the example of Jesus 
Christ and his Apostles. 

That some measures, adopted by some of 
the friends of the Anti-Slavery cause, have 
been ill-advised, may be true. That some 
sentiments entertained by individuals are in- 
correct, is very probable. And that language 
has been used, which is not to be justified, I 
shall not deny. But I ask, gentlemen, are 
not such evils incident to all great efforts for 
the correction of public opinion, or the sub- 
version or amendment of long existing cor- 
rupt institutions ? How much extravagance 
of action, and bitterness of language, there 
was attendant upon the Reformation ! Sure- 
ly the most violent of the Abolitionists have 



Letter to the Editors of the Christian Examiner. 



been tame, in comparison with Luther and 
Calvin. Nevertheless, the accomplishment 
of their enterprise is a matter of rejoicing to 
the whole protestant world, because it under- 
mined the dominion of a spiritual despot, and 
helped to establish among men certain prin- 
ciples, which are fundamental to all the re- 
ligious improvement of mankind. But we 
need not go back from our own age for an 
example. Who, that loves to see health and 
happiness prevail — domestic harmony, and 
public peace and good order — does not feel 
unfeignedly thankful for what has already 
been achieved in the cause of Temperance ? 
Yet what wise and good man will hesitate 
to condemn many things, which have been 
said and done by some of the ardent advo- 
cates of total abstinence ? 

Those who desire to have mankind advanc- 
ing in knowledge, righteousness, and in the 
enjoyment of their rights, should look at the 
obvious bearing of every new movement. If 
it be onivard, if it be to a right result, they 
surely should not withhold their co-operation, 
because of any infelicity of manner, in which 
the movement may have been commenced. 
It is not the fault of the Abolitionists, that 
wiser and better men have not long ago es- 
poused the cause of the oppressed, the en- 
slaved Americans. And now, if those who 
condemn us, will come forward and take this 
great work into their hands, and do it as 
thoroughly as it should be done ; — and in a 
better style than we have begun it — my word 
for it, gentlemen, there is not an Abolitionist 
I am acquainted with, who would not rejoice 
to have them take the lead. But slavery 
must be abolished. If there be any power 
in truth to correct error, and in light to dispel 
darkness, slavery shall be abolished. If 
others will not do the work better than we 
can, we shall go on doing it as well as we 
may be able — looking continually unto God 
for wisdom, resolution and success. 

The spirit of reform is often so checkedby 
the reserve, and forbidding aspect of those, 
who are accounted the wisest and the best, 
that it forbears to act until the pressure of 
conviction can be no longer resisted. It then 
very likely breaks forth from the restraint, in 
which it has been hardly held, with an im- 
petuosity that may do mischief. Let the 
blame therefore, in part, at least, be laid upon 
those who, possessed of the greatest influ- 
ence in the community, have suffered that 



influence to remain on the side of wrong, or 
are tardy in their advocacy of right. They 
are the men, who do in effect hinder the pro- 
gress of reform more than any others. They 
do more to dam up the stream, so that it rises 
and rises, until it overflows the banks of pru- 
dence, and destroys and terrifies, ere it sub- 
sides into its destined channel. 

I have often heard gentlemen, some of 
them persons to whom the community looks 
up with greatest deference, acknowledge 
that the principles of Abolitionists, most if 
not all, were correct ; but then they have 
added, ' the violence of language which some 
of them use is such, that we cannot counten- 
ance it, and so are silent.' I have asked in 
reply, and beg leave here again to ask, do 
these gentlemen, by their silence, escape 
being implicated with such as do wrong, ay, 
with such as use violent, abusive language? 
Are they not ranked among the opposers of 
abolition principles ? And are the opposers 
less censurable than the advocates ? I pledge 
myself to collect, if it be called for, a hun- 
dred fold larger quantity of misrepresenta- 
tion, virulent abuse, and incendiary matter, 
from the publications of the pro-slavery par- 
ty, than can be found in the writings of those 
who are anti-slavery. I do not believe there 
was ever a set of men more misrepresented 
and vilified than the Abolitionists have been. 
I say this confidently, although I am a 
Unitarian ; and I am solicitous that this dec- 
laration should appear before the public in 
the most respectable Journal of the sect. I 
do not believe that any set of men, not even 
the Unitarians, have ever been so much mis- 
represented and vilified as the Abolitionists. 
I repeat then the question, already put, what 
will gentlemen gain by withholding their 
countenance and co-operation from the anti- 
slavery cause ? They may see, at a glance, 
they will not escape the suspicion of giving 
countenance to abusive language and violent 
actions. 

Let any candid man take the common 
charges, which are alleged against the Abo- 
litionists, those charges which are going the 
rounds of our newspapers, some of which 
have now found a place in the Examiner — 
those charges by the iteration of which the 
mob has been recently aroused in New-York, 
to commit the grossest outrages upon the 
property, the persons, and the indisputable 
rights of their anti-slavery fellow-citizens — 



Letter to the Editors of the Christian Examiner. 



5 



let any candid man, I repeat, take these 
charges, and try to find a warrant for them, 
in the publications of the party accused, es- 
pecially in those publications, which have 
issued under the sanction of any Anti-Slave- 
ry Society or Convention. I am perfectly 
willing to abide the result of such an exam- 
ination. I am sure he will find that we have 
been most unjustly arraigned before our 
country, as those who would set at naught 
her Constitution, and violate her laws. He 
will find indeed the avowed purpose and the 
obvious tendency of our measures to be, to 
procure the repeal, as soon as possible, of all 
those laws in our land, which are oppressive 
or derogatory to our colored population — all 
such as are inconsistent with our principles, 
as republicans and christians. He will find 
that we mean, as soon as possible, to procure 
even the amendment of our Constitution, if 
it must be understood now to sanction the 
enslavement, or the degradation of any por- 
tion of our countrymen. But then he will 
find, and it should not be overlooked, that we 
have solemnly pledged ourselves to our coun- 
try, and to one another, to seek the great 
object at which we aim, only by that course 
of action — by those measures and means, 
which are explicitly pointed out, and put into 
our hands for the amendment of any defect 
in our institutions, or the redress of any 
grievance, by that sacred Charter of Rights, 
which we are so wantonly accused of wish- 
ing to trample under foot.* 

The language of the reviewer, in the pas- 
sage before me, though not so harsh, implies 
I suspect, all that is meant by those who re- 
proach us in more unseemly terms. Undoubt- 
edly the writer intended to allege against 
the Abolitionists as much, at least, as is ex- 
pressed in that extract from Prof. Palfrey's 
sermon which he has italicised. He would 
have it believed by our fellow-citizens, that 
we are ' rudely disturbing the political rela- 
tions of society ' — that we are interfering in 
a very improper manner with the constitution 
of our government, and the property of in- 
dividuals. 



* Let me again refer my readers to the Anti-Sla- 
very publications, which I have named above ; also 
to the ' First Annual Report of the American Anti- 
Slavery Society ' — to the ' Proceedings of the New- 
England Convention ' — to ' the Anti-Slavery Re- 
porter'— to Mrs. Child's ' Appeal ' — 'Phelps's Lec- 
tures' — and indeed to the publications of the Abo- 
litionists generally. 



It will not be mistaken by you, for a mere 
compliment, when I say that such an accusa- 
tion, alleged in the Christian Examiner, does 
more to mislead the public mind, than all the 
scurrilous paragraphs respecting us, that 
have appeared in our common newspapers. 
Therefore it is that I am anxious to be heard 
in reply. There arc two counts in the com- 
plaint. Let me consider them separately. 

The first is, that certain ardent but mistak- 
en philanthropists (i. e. the Abolitionists) 
'think they are justified from their abhor- 
rence of slavery, and their zeal for universal 
emancipation, to interfere with the constitu- 
tions of civil government.'' Now, if this alle- 
gation have any meaning, it is either that our 
abhorrence of slavery does not warrant our 
interference in any way, for its abolition ; or 
else that we have supposed it justified our 
interfering in an improper way. I ask in re- 
ply, is not our abhorrence of slavery just ? 
Ought we not to feel an immeasurable, un- 
utterable detestation of a system under Avhich 
millions of our fellow-beings, most of them 
our countrymen, are held in a subserviency 
as entire as that of the domesticated brutes ? 
and have no more protection from injury and 
abuse than those brutes have ? No man of 
human feelings, I trust, can say that our ha- 
tred of such Slavery is too intense, or can 
be. Well, then, have we a right in this coun- 
try to expose our views of this abomination, 
and express our feelings about it ; and thus 
by changing public opinion, and awakening 
public sympathy, procure its abolition ? 
There are many persons even in New-Eng- 
land, I apprehend, who think we have no 
such right. This may be the position the 
reviewer would take. On no subject, perhaps, 
are the views of men apt to be more indis- 
tinct, than on the nature and extent of their 
rights. Often they are most unreasonable 
and extravagant in their demands ; and about 
as often we find them pusillanimously doubt- 
ing, and relinquishing a most sacred right, 
because, forsooth, the faithful exercise of it 
may subject them to inconvenience or per- 
sonal danger. But can we innocently relin- 
quish our right to do our duty ? And is it 
not a matter of the plainest duty to espouse 
the cause of the oppressed, and those who 
have none to help them? I know it is in- 
sisted by many that we ought not to inter- 
fere in behalf of the slaves by any means, 
because it is no concern of ours what their 



Letter to the Editors of the Christian Examiner. 



condition may be, but wholly an affair of our 
southern brethren. No concern of ours! 
Why — are we not men here in New-Eng- 
land, and bound by the ties of common hu- 
manity, to take an interestlin the sufferings 
of our fellow-beings ? Surely the fact that 
these are our countrymen does not annul their 
claim upon us. The right to liberty and the 
pursuit of happiness is born with man, con- 
ferred upon him by his Creator. It is above 
all price, inalienable. He cannot forfeit it 
without crime, nor can it be withheld from 
him without crime. Can we then innocent- 
ly see this right withheld from any of our 
race, and not remonstrate, especially where 
our remonstrance may avail ? Slavery in 
our own country, and no concern of ours ! 
Two millions of our fellow-beings under this 
Republic, held in the most abject bondage, 
bought and sold and treated like cattle! and 
we have nothing to do for them ! Is not 
public opinion the ultimate law of this land, 
and are we not at liberty to operate on pub- 
lic opinion? Can we then be innocent, so 
long as we refrain from doing what we may, 
to change the minds and hearts of this peo- 
ple towards the millions, whom they are 
trampling under foot? New-England noth- 
ing to do with slavery ! Why, are not the 
States of this confederacy mutually pledged 
to maintain the sacred rights of man; and 
are we not all implicated in the deep dis- 
grace and the imminent peril of our nation, 
because of her flagrant violation of her 
vaunted principles ? No concern of ours ! 
Pray are not we of New-England, citizens 
of the United States, and bound by that re- 
lation to consult and labor for the common 
weal ? How then can it be said that we 
have no concern with that, which is sapping 
the foundation of our Republic — ay, con- 
suming the very cement of the Union ? It 
appears to me that he can know nothing of 
the structure of this Confederacy, or cannot 
have attended to the joint action of its parts, 
who does not perceive that, the continual 
friction caused by slavery has already de- 
stroyed all the harmony of its movements. 
Indeed, the evils brought even now upon the 
country by the sin of Slavery are so alarm- 
ing, that our ' wise and prudent ones,' for 
want, methinks, of faith in God's promises 
and power, are appalled into silence. But is 
it right, is it safe to be silent ? Can silence 
avert the calamities we deprecate ? No — no. 



Such is not the way by which men have ever 
been brought out from the dangerous passes, 
into which iniquity has led them. ' Cry aloud, 
spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet,' 
was the command of God to his prophet — 
1 show my people their transgressions.' And 
when, since that day, I demand, when have 
national vices been reformed, and national 
evils averted by silence and inaction? Nay 
— has it not been because of silence, that 
the abomination of slavery has been suffered 
to abide and increase among us even until 
now ? Has it not been because of the inex- 
cusable silence of our statesmen, and ora- 
tors, and ministers of religion, that Slavery 
has been perpetuated under our Republic for 
more than half a century ? Surely it could 
not have borne so long to be spoken of as it 
deserves to be. Silence is protectress of 
this, and of every abomination. 

Here we may be met with the current as- 
sertion, that our National Government has, 
from the beginning, guarantied to a portion 
of the States the privilege of holding slaves. 
This is not strictly true. Such a guaranty 
is no where to be found. Not a word ap- 
pears in the Constitution respecting Slavery. 
That it meant to sanction it, is a matter of 
inference only. But what if the framers of 
this Confederacy had entered into an explicit 
agreement to enforce the subjection of our 
colored countrymen ? A conventional bar- 
gain, though it were made by our venerated 
Fathers, cannot obliterate a self-evident truth, 
or abrogate an everlasting principle of right. 
Who are they that would, with such a plea, 
set at nawght the Almighty, and trifle with 
his sovereignty ? Tell them our boasted 
Constitution is but a piece of parchment, 
when put in opposition to Jehovah's will. 
And tell them too, (what the people of the 
land seem to have strangely forgotten,) that 
the permanency and strength of our confed- 
eracy reside not in the plighted faith of its 
constituent States, but in their fidelity to the 
unchangeable principles of truth and right- 
eousness. Our 4 duty, therefore, would not be 
altered in the least by the most explicit guar- 
anty in our Constitution, if it were found 
there. It would still be our duty to expose 
the unrighteousness of the compact, and the 
dan, r """ of adhering to it. And we should 
have a right so to do under those articles of 
the Constitution, which provide for its own 
amendment, and for the freedom of speech 
and of the press. 



Letter to the Editors of the Christian Examiner. 



I trust, Messrs. Editors, I have shown that 
we Abolitionists have a right, if it be neces- 
sary, to interfere even with the constitution 
of our civil government, if we do so in a 
proper manner. The only question then 
which remains to be settled under this head 
is, whether we have resorted to the proper, 
lawful means to effect our purpose. Here I 
must appeal again to the Declaration of Sen- 
timents and Purposes put out by the Conven- 
tion at Philadelphia, and to the constitutions 
of the numerous Anti-Slavery Societies, 
which have been formed in different parts of 
the country. There will be found, in all 
these, a uniform disclaimer of any intention 
or wish or right to interfere for the relief of 
the slaves by violence, or indeed in any other 
way than through the medium of public sen- 
timent, and public sympathy. 

The second part of the accusation prefer- 
red against us by the reviewer is, that we 
Abolitionists think ourselves justified, from 
our abhorrence of slavery, &c, to interfere 
' with the personal rights and property of in- 
dividuals.' This blow strikes at the very 
foundation of the Anti-Slavery cause. It 
hits the very point, whereon we are at issue 
with the whole pro-slavery party. And the 
fact, that a respectable writer in New-Eng- 
land, in one of the first periodicals in our 
country, should bring it as an accusation 
against those of us, who are pleading for the 
abolition of Slavery, that we are interfering 
with the property or any of the personal rights 
of individuals — and that this will undoubted- 
ly pass with the majority of readers even 
here, as a valid and weighty objection to our 
procedure — reveals the thick moral darkness 
which covers even the people of New-Eng- 
land, hiding from their view the peculiar 
enormity of that system of unrighteousness, 
which is sustained by the strong arm of our 
Republic. What is it that ought to awaken 
in the bosom of every man, certainly of ev- 
ery American, especially of every christian, 
the deepest abhorrence of Slavery ? What 
is it, if it be not that this institution reduc- 
es to the condition of mere chattels the bodies 
and souls of millions of men, most of them 
natives too, of our own country ? In the 
language of one of our southern slave codes, 
1 Slaves are deemed, sold, taken, reputed and 
adjudged in law to be Chattels personal 
in the hands of their owners and possessors, 
and their executors, administrators and as- 



signs, to all intents, constructions a7id purpos- 
es whatsoever.' Or in the words of another 
code, ' A slave is one who is in the power of 
a master to whom he belongs. The master 
may sell him, dispose of his person, his in- 
dustry, and his labor; he can do nothing, 
possess nothing, nor acquire any thing but 
what must belong to his master.' We grant, 
of course, that this is law ; and we confess 
that we are ashamed, before all men, to be 
obliged to acknowledge that it is law in our 
land. But we will not acknowledge that it 
is therefore right ; or that it ought to be si- 
lently acquiesced in. We will not acknowl- 
edge that even the law of our own country 
can make wrong — right ; or that it can alien- 
ate that which is inalienable ; or that it can 
give away what is not its own. We cannot 
conceive of a greater sin against God and 
man, than this reducing of human beings to 
the grade of mere brutes. It is the specific 
purpose of Abolitionists to expose to public 
abhorrence this surpassing wickedness of the 
slave system. If it is wrong to do so, we are 
guilty. But we shall persevere until we are 
persuaded it is wrong. We purpose to use 
only moral means, facts, arguments, elo- 
quence. Thus we shall continue to ' inter- 
fere with the personal rights of individuals,' 
until the property in question is restored to 
its rightful owners. And who are they ? 
Who but the slaves themselves ? They are 
the individuals, whose property is interfered 
with, ay, — whose dearest rights, whose ALL 
is ruthlessly torn from them. We grant that 
this unparalleled iniquity has the sanction of 
American Law. But there is a higher sanc- 
tion than any human Law — and this sanction 
Slavery has not, cannot have. We point to 
the law of God — to those everlasting princi- 
ples of truth and right — and in view of them, 
solemnly demand of our country to restore 
to millions of our countrymen their proper- 
ty, the possession of themselves, and the 
wages of their industry, and all their rights 
as men. 

Can it be, that there are men in New-Eng- 
land, capable of writing such an article as 
the Review in the Examiner, who soberly 
think that the slaveholders have a 'good 
title! to their property in the bodies, indus- 
try, inalienable rights, souls of their slaves 
— a title which may not be questioned, dis- 
puted ' ? So it appears. And this reveals to 
us how great a reformation in public sentl- 



3 



Letter to the Editors of the Christian Examiner. 



ment needs to be effected in New-England, 
which claims to be the most enlightenea, 
and most moral portion our country. Let no 
one say to us Abolitionists again, 'Why do 
you not go to the South and preach your 
doctrines there ? We are all right on the 
subject here.' I am persuaded that the mor- 
al influence of New-England is on the side 
of Slavery. Those sentiments, that state of 
public opinion which is virtually the basis, 
the support of the abomination, are about as 
prevalent here as in any part of the Union. 
And while this is so, it would be folly for 
the advocates of abolition to go with their 
arguments and appeals to the slaveholders 
themselves. But when the moral influence 
of New-England shall be expressly on the 
side of justice, mercy, and the rights of man, 
then will the advocates of this righteous 
cause be sustained ; and may go throughout 
the land, not only in the assurance of being 
heard, but of effecting their object. 

Of the prevalence in New-England of 
pro-slavery sentiments and feelings, I could, 
if there were room, adduce many proofs. 
But this one, brought under consideration by 
the remark of the reviewer, is of itself 
enough. I presume the idea, which he has 
expressed, prevails very generally, that the 
slaves are the property of their masters, 
property which we have no right to question 
or dispute. You probably would not be wil- 
ling to allow me space enough^ after all that 
I have occupied, to discuss this point thor- 
oughly. I will therefore content myself with 
asking the reviewer one question : Where 
did the slaveholders get their property in the 
inalienable rights of their fellpw-men ? A 
portion of their property of this description, 
it may be said, came to them by inheritance. 
But could their fathers transmit to them ' a 
good title ' to that, which they did not them- 
selves rightfully possess ? Trace back this 
species of property to its rise, and you find 
it originated in an act, which now even our 
government accounts most flagrant piracy. 
It originated in the atrocity of the African 
kidnapper — in theft of the worst kind. And 
I demand, could the execrable pirates, who 
stole human bodies from Africa, confer a 
' good title ' of property in them, to those 
who were pleased to pay a few dollars for 
their victims ? Is it not a well known prin- 
ciple of common justice, that what was sto- 
len must everberevertible to him from whom 



it was taken, or to his heirs ? that it can 
never become the property of any other ? 
Shall this principle be applied to a man's 
coat, if it has been stolen, to the covering of 
his body, and yet be considered inapplicable 
to his body ? Who will say this ? It must be 
however the only plea, by which the slave- 
holder can even pretend to support his claim. 

But suppose I should grant that he who 
bought the captured African, had a right of 
property in him ; and therefore that while 
we are at liberty to denounce the one who 
stole him from his home, and from himself, 
as the worst of pirates, we ought to leave 
the purchaser in quiet, undisputed posses- 
sion of his body and soul. Suppose I should 
grant this. Still, this concession could not 
cover over the wrongs done to another por- 
tion of the slaves. Nor should it prevent 
my putting to every slaveholder in the land 
the questions — how did you come by the 
property you claim in the human beings, that 
have been born upon your plantation or in 
your house ? Who has robbed them of their 
birthright to liberty and the pursuit of hap- 
piness ? Let the reviewer attempt, on be- 
half of the slaveholders, to answer these 
questions satisfactorily to himself — and, I am 
confident, he will be brought to see his mis- 
take, in supposing the abolitionists are mis- 
taken, because we think we are justified 'to 
interfere with the property of individuals/ 
For what can be more easily justified than 
the attempt, by constitutional, pacific meas- 
ures, to restore invaluable property to its 
riafht owners ? Very respectfully, 

SAMUEL J. MAY. 
Brooklyn, August 10th, 1834. 

P. S. In the foregoing, you will observe 
I have confined myself to the objections im- 
plied in the language of the Reviewer. 
There are other as weighty objections, afloat 
in the community, which I should be glad to 
answer on the pages oi this work. Allow 
me to express the hope, that the subject of 
Slavery will soon come to be fully and freely 
discussed here. What ought a Christian 
Examiner to investigate more thoroughly, 
than an institution which deprives millions of 
their dearest rights, denies them all intellec- 
tual and moral culture, and utterly disregards 
all their ties ef kindred and affection — an 
institution too, from which is flowing forth 
over the community pollution and discord, 
moral and political death ? S. J. M. 



