Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 

in 2010 witii funding from 

Associates of tine Boston Public Library / The Boston Foundation 



http://www.archive.org/details/wagesorwhipessayOOcond 



WAGES OR THE WHIP. 



AN ESSAY 



COMPARATIVE COST AND PRODUCTIVENESS 



FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 



BY JOSIAII CONDER, 

kUTHOU or "THE MODERX TRAVEI.I-E R," " ITALY," ETC. 



LONDON:* 

SOLD II V 

HATCHARU AND SON, PICCADILLY; J. AND A. ARCH, CORNHILL 
AND JACKSON AND WALFORD, ST. PAUl's CHURCIIYARD. 



18.33. 



%J. '75"S^.5-7 /t,,7 



G. WOODFALL, angei, court, skinner strebt, London. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Slavery a political blunder 1 

I. Is Free labour cheaper than Slave labour • • • 2 

1 . Slave Labour dearer in its prime cost 3 

2. as less productive 4 

(Testimony of Storch, 5.— of Coxe, 6.— of Brougham, Hume, 
Burke, &c. 8.— of Franklin and Koster, 9.— of Dickson, &c. 10. 
—of President Cooper, 12. — of N. Amer. Review, 14.) 

3. — in its ultimate cost, from waste- 
ful husbandry 16 

from the state expenditure it 

entails 18 

from the capital sunk ... 1 9 

Slave labour unprofitable in the middle States of 

America ^1 

Opinion of Hon. Henry Clay, as to the ultimate 

result of slave-breeding ..." 22 

Increase of slave population fatal to the profits of 
slave labour ^^ 

i.1. Application or the principle to tropical cultivation, 25 

Sugar produced in Bengal by free labour 26 

(Evidence of Mr. Fitzmaurice and Mr. Botham, 30.) 

— in Java 32 

_ in Mexico 33 

Interesting experiment made by Count Tovar . . . 36 

Cost of the sugar colonies in human life 39 

Prosperity of the colonies sacrificed to the growth of 

sugar ^2 

The planter injuriously fettered by the present system . 44 
Bryan Edwards's testimony to the enormous expense 

and uncertain profits of slave cultivation .... 46 
Slavery, the cause of the present distress of the propri- 
etors ^1 



III. Is IT POSSIBLE TO SECURE A REGULAR SUPPLY OF FREE 

LABOUR IN THE SuGAR CoLONIES? 53 



Industry of the free blacks of Barbados . . 
Case of Sir Charles Price's emancipated slaves 
Why the free negroes do not work in the fields 
Case of the Crown slaves, Stc. in Antigua . 

free blacks of Trinidad 

: emancipated slaves of Surinam 

Plantations worked by free labour in Cviba 

State of things in Hayti 

Results of emancipation in the Cape Colony . 
Beneficial effects of Task- work . . . o . 

(Taylor, 75.— Scott, 76.— Baillie, 77-— Sharp, i6.— Telfair, 78.— 
Hodgson, 80.) 

Precautionary restrictions by which the contingent dan- 
gers of emancipation may be obviated . 

Strong attachment of the negroes to their homesteads . 

Motives which would induce them to remain on the 
plantations 

The negroes not indisposed to labour for the purpose 
of acquiring luxuries and wealth . 88 

Conclusion 90 



54 
56 
57 
59 
61 
64 
66 
71 
74 
75 



81 

82 

84 



AN ESSAY 



COMPARATIVE COST 



FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR, 



Fouche', Napoleon's arch-minister of police, is reported to 
have remarked respecting the murder of the Duke D'En- 
ghien, that it was worse than a crime: it was a blunder. 
The worst of crimes, in the estimation of pohticians of his 
stamp, is a fruitless one. The doctrine which Fouche ap- 
plied to what he deemed the false step of his master, though 
seldom so plainly avowed, is in accordance with the too pre- 
valent philosophy alike of the cabinet and the counting- 
house, which makes utility the test of virtue and public 
morality. Fox, on one occasion, maintained in the Senate, 
that what is morally wrong cannot be politically right; that 
justice and humanity are always true policy; that they are 
in the end the most gainful. But this abstract principle 
has rarely been recognized by political economists, who re- 
gard men exclusively as governed by their real or supposed 
mercantile interests. Now as it is necessary, in all matters 
of disputation, to reason with men upon their own admitted 
principles, it is proposed, in the following pages, to apply 
the commercial test of morahty to the institution of Slavery, 
and to shew that, according to the language of Fouche, 



Z THE COMPARATIVE COST 

holding men in slavery, is worse than a crime; it is a blun- 
der ; not merely a wrong, but the most disgraceful of mis- 
takes, a blunder in arithmetic. Should we succeed in 
making good our position, that slave-holding is as unprofit- 
able as it is criminal, as costly as it is unjust; if we can 
prove that, in this as in all other instances, doing right is, 
in the long run, cheaper than doing wrong; — we shall have 
demonstrated to the satisfaction of even the West India 
Planters themselves, that slavery ought to be immediately 
abolished. 

To arrive at this conclusion by a legitimate process, there 
are three steps of preliminary inquiry. First, Is Free 
labour cheaper than Slave labour, or the contrary? Se- 
condly, Is Free labour, if cheaper, capable of being em- 
ployed in tropical cultivation, more especially in the cul- 
tivation of sugar ? Or are there any specific circumstances 
which render that case an exception to the general rule ? 
Thirdly, Can a sufficient command of free labour be en- 
sured in the West India colonies, to render the immediate 
abolition of slavery practicable and safe ? 

I. 

Is Fkee labour cheaper than Slave labour? The 
affirmative is now all but universally admitted; so that the 
difficulty of securing free labour, rather than its expensive- 
ness, is generally assigned as the reason for preferring slave 
labour. Still, it may not be superfluous to adduce facts 
and authorities to shew, both that free labour is cheaper 
to the employer than slave labour to the slave-owner, and 
why it is so. 

In estimating the comparative expensiveness of the two 
descriptions of labour, there are three elements which enter 
into the computation: first, the amount expended in ob- 
taining the labour, either in wages, or in rearing and 
maintenance; secondly, the quantity and quality of the 



OF FREE AND StATE LABOUR, 3 

work produced by the labourer; and thirdly, the ultimate 
economical effects of the two systems of cultivation. 

The actual expense of slave labour resolves 'itself into the 
annual sum which, in the average term of the productive 
years of a slave's life, will liquidate the cost of purchase or 
rearing, and of support in old age, if he survive the capa- 
city for labour, together with interest and the sum an- 
nually expended in his maintenance. Now, although the 
expense of free labour really includes the same elements, 
(since the wages of labour must be such as will enable the 
labourer to bring up his family so as to perpetuate the sup- 
ply,) the West India planters are, at this moment, com- 
plaining of part of this necessary cost of slave labour, as 
their peculiar burden, and one cause of the admitted de- 
pression and distress. " The West India colonist," it is 
said,* " is subject to a burden peculiar to himself; that of 
maintaining, be his profits what they may, the whole body 
of labourers, and of their families existing upon his land." 
The cost of raising children in the British colonies under 
the present system, is alleged to be so great, that even the 
old system of importation, if we may believe the West In- 
dians, is cheaper ; and it is actually made the ground of 
complaint, that the slave-trading of the Brazilians gives 
them an advantage over the British colonies. This is con- 
trary to fact; and Mr. Cropper has shewn that, on the 
contrary, the great loss which the Brazilians sustain by the 
system of importation, is one chief means of enabling the 
British colonies to compete with them.-f* In fact, in Vir- 
ginia, slaves are reared for exportation to the southern and 

• Report of Select Committee of the House of Commons, ordered to be 
printed, April 13, 1832. 

f " Not only are the newly imported slaves less effective than the Creoles, 
but this system of importation is dearer by 7s. Id. per cwt. than the Ame- 
rican, and 4s. 2d. per cwt. than that of the Briti.sh colonies." Review of 
Report, p. 7. 

B 2 



4 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

western states ; which must be taken as afFording some 
proof that those who purchase them, pay a price that covers 
both the cost of rearing them, and a profit upon the cost. 
Still, ridiculous as may be the exaggerations of the West 
Indians, as to the comparative cheapness of rearing slaves 
and of importing them, it appears from their own shewing, 
that the cost of raising slaves is far greater than that at 
which the free labourer is enabled by wages to bring up his 
family. " The fund destined for replacing and repairing, 
if I may say so, the wear and tear of a slave," remarks 
Adam Smith, " is commonly managed by a negligent 
master or careless overseer. That destined for performing 
the same office with regard to the freeman, is managed by 
the freeman himself. The disorders which generally pre- 
vail in the economy of the rich, naturally introduce them- 
selves into the management of the former : the strict fru- 
gality and parsimonious attention of the poor, as naturally 
establish themselves in those of the latter." This may in 
some measure explain the fact, which is established by well 
attested experience, Mr. Adam Hodgson states, that, ac- 
cording to an estimate made in one of the slave districts of 
the United States, " taking the purchase-money, or the 
expense of rearing a slave, with the cost of his maintenance, 
at their actual rates, and allowing fifteen years of health 
and strength, during which to liquidate his first cost, his 
labour will be about 25 per cetit. dearer than that of the 
free labourer in the neighbouring districts."* 

But labour is cheap or dear, not merely as it is more or 
less costly, but as it is more or less productive. What is 
the result of the comparison between free and slave labour 

* Hodgson's Letter to Say, p. 2. See also Minutes of Evidence before 
the Lords' Committee, p. 838. According to an elaborate calculation fur- 
nished by John Innes, Esq. a West Indian, each negro child costs the 
sum of 226/. 14s. lOrf., by the time it comes to the age of fourteen ; to 
justify which expense, there must be a profit on sugar five hundred times as 
great as at present ! 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 5 

in this 1-espect ? Upon this point, we find ready to our 
hand, some testimonies cited by Mr. Hodgson* from different 
writers, which we shall transcribe. The first is that of the 
Russian political economist, Storch, who had carefully 
examined the system of slavery in that extensive empire, 
and who gives the result of his observations in the following 
term.s. 

" The slave, working always for another, and never for 
himself, being limited to a bare subsistence, and seeing no 
prospect of improving his condition, loses all stimulus to ex- 
ertion ; he becomes a machine, often very obstinate and very 
difficult to manage. A man who is not rewarded in proportion 
to the labour he performs, works as little as he can: this is an 
acknowledged truth, which the experience of every day con- 
firms. Let a free labourer work by the day, he will be indo- 
lent: pay him by the piece, he will often work to excess, and 
ruin his health. If this observation is just in the case of the 
free labourer, it must be still more so in that of the slave. 

" Whilst the ancient Romans cultivated their lands themselves, 
Italy was renowned for fertility and abundance ; but agriculture 
declined when abandoned to slaves. Then, the land, instead 
of being brought under the plough, was transformed into mea- 
dows, and the inhabitants of that fine country became depend- 
ent for their subsistence on provinces situated beyond the sea. 
The small proprietors and farmers disappeared, and the same 
country which had formerly presented the smiling aspect 
of a crowd of villages, peopled with free men in easy circum- 
stances, became a vast solitude, in which were scattered, here 
and there, some magnificent palaces, which formed the most 
striking contrast with those miserable cabins and subterranean 
dens in which the slaves were shut up. These facts, related by 
the Roman historians, are attested and explained by Pliny, Colu- 
mella, and Varro. ' What was the cause of these abundant 
harvests?' asks Pliny, speaking of the early periods of the 
republic. ' It is, that at that time, men of consular dignity 
devoted themselves to the cultivation of tlieir fields, which are 
now abandoned to wretches loaded with irons, and bearing on 
their forehead the brand of their degraded condition.' The 

* See HoH." ■'• J.etteiU) >S;iy. 1!(2;;. 



6 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

superiority of free over slave labourers, is even acknowledged 
by the masters, when they have sufficient intelligence to judge 
of the difference, and sufficient honesty to avow their senti- 
ments. Recollect on this subject the passage of Columella, 
which I have already quoted, and in which he depicts the neg- 
ligence and perverseness of slave labourers. In the same chap- 
ter, he advances as a fundamental principle, that, whatever be 
the nature of the cultivation, the labour of the free cultivator is 
always to be preferred to that of the slave. Pliny is of the 
same opinion.* 

** Observe, that this testimony in favour of free labour, is 
given by Romans, who were at once proprietors of slaves, and 
the most eminent writers on agriculture of their time. In ma- 
nufactures, the superiority of the free labourer over the slave, 
is still more obvious than in agriculture. The more manufac- 
tures extend in Russia, the more people begin to feel the truth 
of this remark. In 1805, M. Panteleyef, a manufacturer in 
the district of Moscow, gave liberty to all his workmen who 
were slaves, the number of whom amounted to 84. The same 
year, M. Milioutin did the same." 

" If slave labour were cheaper than free labour," remarks 
Mr. Hodgson, " we might confidently presume that estates 
would be rendered less productive by the emancipation of the 
slaves which cultivated them ; but the presumption is contra- 
dicted by experience. ' A few Polish nobles,' (observes Coxe, 
in his travels in Poland,) ' of benevolent hearts and enlight- 
ened understandings, have acted upon different principles, and 
have ventured upon the expedient of giving liberty to their 
vassals. The event has shewn this to be no less judiciovis than 
humane, no less friendly to their own interests than to the hap- 
piness of the peasants ; for it appears that, in the districts in 
which the new arrangement has been introduced, the population 

* Mr. Blair, in his recent Inquiry into the State of the Romans, calls in 
question the accuracy of Dickson's opinion, (first published in 1788,) that 
the cost of slave labour in ancient Italy, was dearer than that of a free ope- 
rative labourer in Britain. He thinks, that that writer assumed much too 
high an average price of a working slave, and is disposed to estimate 
the annual cost, including interest on the purchase, at from 91. 10s. to 
141. lOs, a year. But a free Roman labourer's wages for the year, 
would not, he calculates, have been above 8^. 7«- Sc?. ; so that he 
would have been a still less expensive labourer than a slave. ^' '-'s In- 
quiry, pp. 161—283. 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. y 

of their villages has been considerably increased, and the reve- 
nues of their estates augmented in a triple proportion. The 
first noble who granted freedom to his peasants, was Zamoiski, 
formerly great chancellor, who, in 1761, enfranchised six vil- 
lages, in the palatinate of Masovia.' ' These villages were, in 
1777, visited by the Author of the Patriotic Letters, from whom 
I received the following information : — On inspecting the parish 
registers of births, from 17o0 to 1760, that is, during the ten 
years of slavery immediately preceding their enfranchisement, 
he found the births 434 ; in the first ten years of their freedom, 
fi-om 1760 to 1770, 628; and from 1770 to the beginning of 
1777, 585. By these extracts, it appeared that, during 
the 

First period, there were only 43 births 1 

Second ditto 62 ditto >-each year. 

Third ditto 77 ditto J 

" * The revenues of the six villages, since their enfranchise- 
ment, have been augmented in a much greater proportion than 
their population. In the state of vassalage, Zamoiski was 
obliged, according to the custom of Poland, to build cottages 
and barns for his peasants, and to furnish them with food, 
horses, and ploughs, and every implement of agriculture : since 
their enfranchisement, they are become so easy in their circum- 
stances, as to provide themselves with all these necessaries at 
their own expense, and they likewise cheerfully pay an annual 
rent in lieu of the manual labour formerly exacted by their 
master. By these means, the receipts of this particular estate 
have been nearly tripled. 

" ' The example of Zamoiski has been followed by Chrepto- 
witz, vice-chancellor of Lithuania, and the Abbe Bryzolowski, 
with similar success. Prince Stanislaus, the king of Poland, 
has warmly patronized the plan of giving liberty to the peasants. 
He has enfranchised four villages not far from Warsaw, in 
which he has not only emancipated the peasants from their sla- 
very, but even condescends to direct their affairs. He ex- 
plained to me, in the most satisfactory manner, that the grant 
of freedom was no less advantageous to the lord than to the 
peasant, provided the former is willing to superintend their con- 
duct for a few years, and to put them in the way of acting for 
themselves. He intends giving the public a particvdur account 



8 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

of his arrangements, and will show how much he has increased 
the value of his estate, as well as the happiness of his pea- 
sants.' " 

The following additional testimonies are cited by Mr. 
Hodgson. The first is taken from the elaborate treatise on 
Colonial Policy, by the present Lord Chancellor. 

" ' It requires very little argument to prove,' remarks Mr. 
Broughain, ' that the quantity of work which may be obtained 
from a labourer or drudge, is liable to be affected as much by 
the injurious treatment he receives, as by the idleness in which 
he may be permitted to indulge. When this drudge is a slave, 
no motive but fear can operate on his diligence and attention. 
A constant inspection is, therefore, absolutely necessary, and a 
perpetual terror of the lash, the only prevention of indolence. 
But there are certain bounds prescribed, even to the power of 
the lash. It may force the vmhappy victim to move, because 
the line of distinction between motion and rest, action and re- 
pose, is definite ; but no punishment can compel the labourer 
to strenuous exertions, because there is no measure or standard 
of activity. A state of despair, and not of industry, is the 
never failing consequence of severe chastisement; and the con- 
stant repetition of the torture only serves to blunt the sensibility 
of the nerves, and to disarm punishment of its terrors. The body 
is injured, and the mind becomes as little willing as the limbs 
are able to exert.' " 

" Hume remarks : ' I shall add, from the experience of our 
planters, that slavery is as little advantageous to the master as 
to the man. The fear of punishment will never draw so much la- 
bour from a slave, as the dread of being turned off, and not 
getting another service, will give a free man.' 

" Burke observes, in his treatise on European Settlements : ' I 
am the more convinced of the necessity of these indulgences, as 
slaves certainly cannot go through so much work as free men. 
The mind goes a great way in every thing ; and when a man 
knows that his labour is for himself, and that the more he la- 
bours, the more he is to acquire, this consciousness carries him 
through, and supports him beneath fatigues, under which he 
would otherwise have sunk.' 

" ' That the proprietors of West India estates,' observes Dr. 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. \) 

Beattie. ' would be in any respect materially injured by em- 
ploying free servants (if these could be had) in their several 
manufactures, is highly improbable, and has, indeed, been ab- 
solutely denied by those who were well informed on this subject. 
A clergyman of Virginia assured me, that a white man does 
double the work of a slave ; which will not seem wonderful, if 
we consider that the former works for himself, and the latter 
for another ; that by the law, one is protected, the other op- 
pressed; and that in the articles of food and clothing, relax- 
ation and rest, the free man has innumerable advantages. It 
may, therefore, be presumed, that if all who serve in the Co- 
lonies were free, the same work would be performed by half the 
number, which is now performed by the whole. The very soil 
becomes more fertile under the hands of free men. So says an 
intelligent French author, (Le Poivre,) who, after observing 
that the products of Cochin China are the same in kind with 
those of the West Indies, but of better quality, and in greater 
abundance, gives for a reason, that ' the former are cultivated 
by free men, and the latter by slaves ; ' and therefore argues, 
' that the negroes beyond the Atlantic ought to be made free.' 
' The earth,' says he, ' which multiplies her productions with 
profusion imder the hands of a free-born labourer, seems to 
shrink into barrenness under the sweat of the slave.' 

" ' It is an ill-grounded opinion,' says Franklin, in his Essay 
on the Peopling of Countries, ' that by the labour of slaves, 
America may possibly vie in cheapness of manufactures with 
Great Britain. The labour of slaves can never be so cheap 
here, as the labour of working men is in Great Britain. Any 
one may compute it. Reckon, then, the interest of the first 
purchase of a slave, the insurance or risk on his life, his cloth- 
ing and diet, expenses in his sickness and loss of time, loss by 
his neglect of business, (neglect which is natural to the man 
who is not to be benefited by his own care or diligence,) ex- 
pense of a driver to keep him at work, and his pilfering from 
time to time, (almost every slave being, from the nature of 
slavery, a thief,) and compare the whole amount with the wao-es 
of a manufacturer of iron or wool, in England ; you will see 
that labour is much cheaper there, than it ever can be by ne- 
groes here.' 

" Koster, in his Travels in the Brazils, observes: 'The slave- 



10 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

trade is impolitic, on the broad principle, that a man in a state 
of bondage, will not be so serviceable to the community, as one 
who acts for himself, and whose whole exertions are directed to 
the advancement of his own fortune ; the creation of which, by 
regular means, adds to the general prosperity of the society to 
which he belongs. This undoubted and indisputable fact must 
be still more strongly impressed on the mind of every one who 
has been in the habit of seeing the manner in which slaves per- 
form their daily labour. The indifference and extreme slow- 
ness of every movement, plainly point out the trifling interest 
which they have in the advancement of the work. I have 
watched two parties labouring in the same field, one of free 
persons, the other of slaves ; which occasionally, though very 
seldom, occurs. The former are singing, joking, and laughing, 
and are always actively turning hand and foot ; whilst the latter 
are silent, and if they are viewed from a little distance, their 
movements are scarcely to be perceived.' 

" Hall, adverting to the pernicious effects of slavery on the 
southern states of North America, observes : ' Experience shews, 
that, the quantity of labour performed by slaves, is much below 
that of an equal number of free cultivators.' 

" An intelligent American gentleman, to whom queries on this 
subject were sent out, remarks : ' I have, in one of my answers, 
exposed the effect of slave-cultivation on the soil of our country, 
and on the value of real estate. I will here further observe, 
that, independently of this, there is no fact more certainly be- 
lieved by every sound mind in this country, than that slave la- 
bour is abstractedly in itself, as it regards lis, a great deal 
dearer than labour performed by freemen : this is susceptible 
of clear proof.' 

" Dr. Dickson, who resided in Barbados as secretary to the 
late Hon. Edward Hay, the Governor of that island, observes, 
in a letter published in his valuable work, on the Mitigation of 
Slavery : ' You need not be informed, that it has been known for 
many ages, by men of reflection, that the labour of slaves, whether 
bought or bred, though apparently cheaper, is really far dearer in 
general than that of free men.' ' The arguments which support this 
conclusion, as applicable to modern Colonial slavery, were long ago 
assented to and exemplified by men intimately acquainted with 
and interested in the subject,' In another letterin the same work. 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUK. 11 

he gives ' a calculation made under the guidance of M. Cou- 
lomb, an able mathematician and experienced engineer, who 
for many years conducted extensive military works both in 
France and the West Indies, and has published the result of 
his observations.' From this he infers, ' that field slaves do 
only between a third and a half of the work despatched by re- 
luctant French soldiers, and probably not more than a third of 
what those very slaves would do, if urged by their own interest, 
instead of brute force, as Mr. Steele experienced.' In speaking 
of Mr. Steele's experience in another place, he remarks : ' He 
has ascertained as a fact, what was before known to the learned 
as a theory, and to practical men as a paradox. That the paying 
of slaves for their labour, does actually produce a very great 
profit to their owners.' Again, this able and experienced writer 
observes : ' The planters do not take the right way to make hu- 
man beings put forth their strength. They apply main force, 
where they should apply moral motives, and punishments alone, 
where rewards should be judiciously intermixed. And yet, 
strange to tell, those very men affirm, and affirm truly, that a 
slave wiU do more work for himself in an afternoon, than he 
can be made to do for his owner in a whole day or more. Now 
what is the plain inference ? Mr. Steele, though a stranger 
in the West Indies, saw it at once, and resolved to turn it to 
account. He saw that the negroes, like all other human beings, 
were to be stimulated to permanent exertion only by a sense 
of their own interests, in providing for their own wants and those 
of their offspring. He therefore tried rewards, which immedi- 
ately roused the most indolent to exertion. His experiments 
ended in regular wages, which the industry he had excited 
among his whole gang, enabled him to pay. Here was a na- 
tural, efficient, and profitable reciprocity of interests. His 
people became contented ; his mind was freed from that perpe- 
tual vexation, and that load of anxiety, which are inseparable 
from the vulgar system ; and in little better than four years, the 
annual nett clearance of his projjerty was more than tripled.' 

" ' I must additionally refer,' remarks the same intelligent 
writer in another place, ' to an excellent pamphlet, entitled 
Observations on Slavery, (published in 1788, and now out of 
print,) by my late worthy friend Dr. James Anderson, who 
shews that the labour of a West India slave costs about thrice 



12 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

as much as it would cost if executed by a free man. Taking 
another case, he demonstrates, that the labour of certain colliers 
in Scotland, who, till our own times, were subjected to a mild 
kind of vassalage, regulated by law, was twice as dear as that 
of the free men who wrought other coal-mines in the same 
country, and thrice as dear as common day labour.' " 

" Slave labour," remarks President Cooper of South 
Carolina, *' is, tmdoubtedly, the dearest kind of labour : it 
is all forced ; and forced, too, from a class of human beings 
who, of all others, have the least propensity to voluntary 
labour, even when it is to benefit themselves alone. 

" What is the value of a negro at full age of twenty-one ? 
From birth to fifteen years of age, including food, clothing, 
hfe insurance, and medicine, he will be an expense. From 
fifteen to twenty-one, his labour may be made to pay the 
cost of his insurance, attendance, maintenance, and clothing. 
The work he can do from birth to fifteen years of age will 
scarcely compensate the insurance of his life, and the medi- 
cine and attendance he may need. ... I think, all hazards 
included, and all earnings deducted, the lowest cost of a 
negro of twenty-one, to the person who raises him will, on 
an average, be five hundred dollars. 

" The usual work of a field hand is barely two thirds of 
what a white day labourer at usual wages would perform. 
This is the outside .'"" 

Estimating the food, clothing, and medicine of a field 
hand at 40 dollars a year, and adding interest on the capital 
laid out in his purchase or in rearing him, (which the Author 
contends, to cover risk, ought to be, at least, ten per cent.,) 
his cost, he says, will be 90 dollars per annum for two thirds 
of a day''s work of a white man, or 120 dollars per annum 
for negro labour of the same amount in quantity as a white 
man's. " Upon this calculation, they are both equal in cost. 
But an overseer is necessary to a negro, and not to a white 
labourer.'''' " Nothing will justify slave labour in point 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 13 

of economy, but the nature of the soil and climate, which inca- 
pacitates a white man from labouring in the summer time ; as 
on the rich lands in Carolina and Georgia. In places merely 
agricultural, as New York, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Indiana, 
Missouri, slave labour is entirely unprojitahle. It is even 
so in Maryland and Virginia."* 

This admission, from an individual holding so high a 
station in a slave-holding state, and surrounded by slave 
proprietors, is little short of decisive. The qualification 
with which it is accompanied, will be found, on ex- 
amination, to have no force. The nature of the soil and 
climate, it is true, may be such as to incapacitate a 
white man from labouring in the summer time. Yet, 
if that white man be a slave, — and many slaves are noto- 
riously of a colour and breed very nearly approaching 
to white, — this is held by the owner to be no sufficient 
reason for exempting him from such labour. But what is 
to hinder a free black from labouring under those circum- 
stanpes.'' President Cooper, knowing well the prejudices 
of his countrymen, does not venture to hint at the possibility 
of employing free black labour, — knowing it to be impracti- 
cable to combine it with slave labour ; and thus, the only 
comparison he institutes, is between slave labour and white 
labour. But, according to his own shewing, if free black 
labour could be substituted, " nothing could justify slave la- 
bour in point of economy !" For, even supposing that a white 
day labourer would in general perform more work than a 
black day labourer, (a point which we by no means concede,) 
the cost of the latter would be so much less, as more than 
to compensate for the inferior productiveness of his labour. 

President Cooper, however, assumes, that the blacks are 

a class of human beings who have less propensity than any 

others to voluntary labour, even when it is to benefit 

themselves alone ; and he might, therefore, deem himself 

• Cooper's Elements of Pol. Econ. pp. 106, 7. 



14 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

warranted to conclude that only forced labour could be 
obtained from them. This erroneous conclusion will be 
fully disproved hereafter. In this place we shall merely 
adduce from another American publication of authority, an 
account of the alleged effects of emancipation upon the libe- 
rated blacks transported to the African colony of Liberia ; 
premising, that the writer is an enemy to emancipation, ex- 
cept on the unrighteous condition of transportation, and that 
we wholly disapprove of the ultimate drift of his argument. 
" The (Colonization) Society has always contended, 
that, debased as the blacks are but too generally among our- 
selves, — their misfortune, and not their fault, — the mostigno- 
rant and humble of them were capable of becoming, under 
favourable circumstances, intelligent, industrious, and com- 
petent, in every point of view, for all the offices of an in- 
dependent, social, and civil community. The experiment 
has succeeded to a very encouraging extent. Removed from 
the thraldom of slavery, and the pressure of circumstances 
more humihating and degrading than slavery itself, the slave, 
when he leaps a free man upon the shore of his own an- 
cient land, seems to throw off his very nature with his 
chains. The accounts to this effect, which reach us from 
all quarters are gratifying in the highest degree. Take, 
for example, Mr. Mechlin's description of the manumitted 
slaves sent out in 1 828, by the Harriet. They were located 
on farms at Caldwell, a town beautifully situated at the 
junction of two fine rivers, and consisting of one street, 
about a mile and a half long, kept very clean, and planted 
on either side with rows of plantains and bananas. An 
ornamented open space is left between these and the water. 
Mr. Mechlin says, ' I was particularly struck with the 
great progress made by the Harriet's people in the cultiva- 
tion of their farms, and had I not known to the contrary, 
should have supposed they had occupied them, at least, two 
or three years. In short, the whole place is in a high state 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 15 

of cultivation, and the inhabitants, by their industry, have 
placed themselves above want/ The advances made by the 
recaptured Africans, under the admirable management of 
the Society in regard to them, have been equally surprising. 
Of the one hundred and forty-two colonized in 1828, only 
twenty remained, at the end of a week, a charge to the 
United States, by whom they were sent out. The majority 
were put out to service with old settlers for a certain term, 
with the expectation of being afterwards treated like other 
emigrants. A few months subsequently, the colonial agent 
describes them as having more than equalled his highest 
anticipations. More recently, they have been comfortably 
settled upon farms of their own. In 1830, the Vice-agent 
speaks thus of the ninety-one persons of the same class, co- 
lonized early in that season: — ' I cannot perceive that the 
climate has any effect upon the recaptured people per the 
Heroine. They have been placed on lands assigned them ; 
and have already constructed twenty superior country 
houses, thatched in a manner peculiar to themselves, and far 
surpassing those of any of the natives. As regards the old ones 
of this class, I consider them as the most independent men whom 
we have. Could you behold their neat town of New Georgia, 
you would be delighted, and could hardly believe that these 
were the mdividuals, who, when hi the United States, in 
a state of bondage, had no thought for the morrow. They 
supply our markets with vegetables, potatoes, fowls, melons, 
&c. ; and the readiness with which the sales have been ef- 
fected, has been a spur to their industry. Many of them 
also labour in this settlement all their spare time, besides 
attending to the cultivation of their farms.' "" * 

If, then, such be the actual transformation which the 
liberated slave exhibits on touching the shores of Africa, 
where the climate is not more favourable to labour than in 
the Carolinas or Jamaica, what is to prevent the slave from 
throwing off his very nature with his chains, on the western 

* North American Review, No. LXXVI. p. 157. 



16 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

shores of the Atlantic or in the islands of the Caribbean 
Sea ? Unless this can be shewn to be precluded by some 
physical impossibility, some local cause of mysterious force, 
sufficient to counteract the natural elasticity of the mind 
relieved from the pressure of the iron yoke, nothing, to use 
the words of the American Professor, will justify slave la- 
bour in point of economy. 

But the ultimate cost of the system is also to be taken 
into the estimate of the comparative expensiveness of slave 
labour: the ultimate cost arising from a wasteful and dete- 
riorating husbandry on the one hand, and on the other, from 
the contingent social evils, which demand a precautionary 
provision. 

That the soil of all the estates cultivated by slave labour, 
becomes in time so exhausted as to yield a very diminished 
produce, is too notorious to be denied. Indeed, it forms a 
topic of complaint on the part of the planters themselves. 
But the true cause of that exhaustion is not so generally 
known. Some persons have supposed it to arise from a 
peculiarity in the cultivation of the cane; but this is an 
error. Wheat, oats, or barley would exhaust the soils 
to an equal degree, if cultivated year after year without 
a change. In many counties of England, the regular 
alternation of cattle and green crops, while adding cat- 
tle to the productions of the soil, has, at the same time, 
greatly increased the production of grain. No improve- 
ment of this kind has been generally introduced into the 
Colonies. The following remarks upon this subject are 
taken from a Report drawn up by Dr. Nugent, and read to 
the Agricultural Society of Antigua : 

" With regard to the state of our live stock, and the pro- 
duction of manure consequent thereon, our situation here may 
not inaptly be compared to what it was in many parts of Great 
Britain, especially in those districts which have a bleaker air 
and poorer soil, prior to the introduction of the turnip and clo- 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. ,17 

ver system. The natural pastures yielded comparatively but 
little food, even during the summer months ; and the cattle in 
many districts were so much reduced during winter, that half 
the next grass season was scarcely sufficient to restore their 
condition ; and when the winter was long and severe, numbers 
perished by famine. The vast addition to the quantity and 
quality of the dunghill by the consumption of clover and similar 
grasses, and turnips, &c., has been the means of rendering pro- 
ductive those inferior soils, which, under the old system of 
successive corn crops and naked fallow, it had become impos- 
sible to cultivate with profit ; and even the fine lands have been 
so much benefited as perhaps to have since doubled their 
return of grain. The experience of the Island of Barbados 
appears to be still more in point. By repeated cropping, the 
soil had become, less than half a century since, so much worn 
as to be almost unproductive in the sugar cane ; but, by the sub- 
stitution of other crops, particvdarly the Guinea corn, a system 
of soiling and tethering cattle was introduced, which, increasing 
largely the store of dung, has not only been the means of 
retrieving the lands, but has, perhaps, made them more pro- 
ductive than ever; adding, at the same time, to those number- 
less conveniences and resources which never fail to proceed 
from a due attention to the brute animals. . . . Fortunately, the 
cane is not, perhaps, so rapid an exhauster of the soil, as are the 
culmiferous plants, the staple crops of Europe."* 

Nothing can be more wasteful and extravagant than the 
whole system of slave cultivation. In a paper published in 
the proceedings of the Barbados Agricultural Society, 
Major Moody estimates, that 25 per cent, of all the labour 
annually employed on an estate in that island, was devoted 
to the collection of matters to serve as manure. The method 
of applying manure to the land, by carrying it out in bas- 
kets on the heads of the labourers, is as tedious and irksome 
as it is disgustingly filthy: it is, perhaps, says Dr. Nugent, 
" the most wasteful application of labour eimr conceived; 
siii-k as could have originated only where there ivas a 

* PorKT oil the Sii^-'ar f';ui(;, p. 'MM .'U(l. 



18 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

great superabundance of hands, or where there may have 
been a necessity of manuring some steep, mountainous, and 
rocky situations. The use of the plough, fortunately," he 
adds "invites to the adoption of more compendious methods 
of attaining the results.""* But the use of the plough is 
almost unknown in the West Indies, although strongly re- 
commended by Bryan Edwards forty years ago, and the dimi- 
nution of human labour which might thereby be effected, 
is immense.-}- The primitive hoe is still, as among the 
most barbarous nations, the chief implement used in turning 
up the soil. Wherever slave labour is employed, we find 
the same wretched and improvident husbandry, the same 
indifference to all expedients for saving labour, the same 
repugnance to improvements of every kind, the same dete- 
rioration of the soil, and the same ruinous results. 

The indirect expense of slavery, through the waste of 
labour which it entails, is a circumstance of material import. 
We find an American slave owner, D. Murray, Esq. of 
Maryland, thus expressing his high satisfaction at having 
sent off thirty of his slaves to Liberia. " I have never 
regretted parting with them, and would not have them back 
again on any consideration. Three white men noiv do the 
work of the thirty ; and maintaining the women and chil- 
dren cost quite as much as the labour of the white men. 
Farming has now become quite a delightful employment: 
formerly it was a perfect drudgery; and my slaves would as 
willingly return from independence to slavery, as I would 
accept the ungrateful task of again becoming an over seer. ''''\ 
But further, the ultimate cost of slavery includes the state 
expenditure which it renders necessary in order to provide 
against the dangers inseparable from the existence of a ser- 
vile class. " In every state," remarks Michaelis, while 
apologizing for the institution of slavery, " wherein the 

• Porter, p. 302. t See Ibid, p. 295. 

X Reports of the Pennsylvania Colon. Soc. p. ix. 



OF FKEE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 19 

number of slaves is very great, there must be reckoned the 
very same number of unarmed subjects, who, while they 
contribute nothing to its defence, because they cannot be 
entrusted with arms, must nevertheless be maintained ; and 
there is yet this further danger, that the slaves, sensible at 
last of their strength as well as their hardships, may seize 
upon arms, and become masters of the country. The his- 
tories of Rome and other nations record examples of such 
servile wars." * This consideration, he admits, presents a 
formidable objection against the system. Wherever a ser- 
vile caste exists, a standing military force is required to 
over-awe and control them. The expense of this military 
police, whether borne by the colony itself, or by the parent 
country, must obviously be taken into the calculation, in 
estimating the cost of slave labour. We shall see here- 
after, how formidable an item it actually forms in the ac- 
count of the burdens entailed upon this country by the 
West India colonies. 

Thus far, we have confined our attention to the illustra- 
tion of the general principle, that slave labour is dearer than 
free labour ; dearer in its prime cost, dearer from its inferior 
productiveness, and dearer from the waste and bad economy 
to which it uniformly leads, as well as from its cost to the 
State. This view of the economical objections against 
slavery has been admirably illustrated by a popular female 
Writer, Miss Martineau, in her Tale of Demerara. In the 
summary of principles appended to that Tale, the leading 
points are thus succinctly stated. 

" Where the labourer is not held as capital, the capitalist 
pays for labour only. 

" Where the labourer is held as capital, the capitalist 
not only pays a much higher price for an equal quantity of 
labour, but also for waste, negligence, and theft on the part 
of the labourer. Capital is thus sunk, which ought to be 
reproduced. 

• ."Nlirhaplis, Laws of Moses, Vol. II. p. 150. 

c 2 



20 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

" As the supply of slave labour does not rise and fall 
■with the wants of the capitalist, like that of free labour, he 
employs his occasional surplus on works which could be 
better done by brute labour or machinery. 

" By refusing brute labour, he refuses facilities for con- 
vertible husbandry, and for improving the labour of his 
slaves by giving them animal food. 

" By rejecting machinery, he declines the most direct 
and complete method of saving labour. Thus, again, capi- 
tal is sunk which ought to be reproduced. 

" In order to make up for this loss of capital to slave- 
owners, bounties and prohibitions are granted in their be- 
half by Government ; the waste committed by certain capi- 
talists abroad, being thus paid for out of the earnings of 
those at home. 

" Sugar being the production especially protected, every 
thing is sacrificed by planters to the growth of sugar. The 
land is exhausted by perpetual cropping ; the least possible 
portion of it is tilled for food ; the slaves are worn out by 
over-work ; and their numbers decrease in proportion to the 
scantiness of their food, and the oppressiveness of their toil. 
When the soil is so far exhausted as to be out of reach of 
the sugar bounties, more food is raised, less toil is inflicted, 
and the slave population increases." 

This is decidedly proved by the increase of the slave 
population in those islands where little sugar is cultivated. 
Not only is the decrease of the slave population peculiar to 
the sugar colonies ; but it is a remarkable fact, established 
by Mr. Buxton in his evidence before the House of Lords'* 
Committee, that that decrease keeps pace with the increase 
of sugar pretty accurately throughout. There are two ex- 
ceptions to the general decrease of population among the 
sugar colonies; Dominica, where the numbers are nearly 
stationary, and Barbados, where there is a considerable in- 
crease. But in both these colonies, the quantity of sugar 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 21 

produced in proportion to the population, is so small, that, 
in point of fact, the full weight of the system in the sugar 
colonies does not fall upon the negroes in those islands. 
The quantity of sugar grown in Trinidad, is 18 cwt. for 
each negro ; the quantity in Barbados is somewhat under 
3 cwt., and in Dominica, abovit the same quantity *. It is 
observable also, that Barbados is the oaily sugar colony in 
which an improved system of cultivation has been intro- 
duced by the alternation of other crops, so as to economize 
labour. 

In the United States of America, the slave population 
increases so rapidly as to have become a source of anxiety 
and alarm to the Government, and to render the superfluous 
labour a positive burden to the slave-owner. The expla- 
nation of this fact is, that, in the old states, where the 
same improvident system of cultivation has been persisted 
in, the land is so exhausted by the tobacco crops, that the 
slaves cannot reproduce so much as they consume. This 
must ere long have led to the extinction of slavery in those 
districts, or to the utter ruin of the proprietors, had not the 
increased demand for slave labour in the more southern 
states, occasioned by the great increase of the cotton plant- 
ations, led to the revival of an extensive slave-trade In the 
heart of the United States. Under these circumstances, 
the more northern plantations have been converted into " a 
vast breeding ground," where negroes are reared for the 
express purpose of supplying the fatal and ever-widening 
market in the states bordering on the Gulf of Mexico and 
the Mississippi, f In the Middle States, in Virginia, Ken- 
tucky, and North Carolina, slave labour has long ceased to 
be profitable ; and the time is anticipated as not very dis- 
tant, when slave-breeding will also cease to answer. After 
perusing the following remarks upon this subject from the 
pen of the Hon. Henry Clay, one of the most distinguished 

' Report oi Select Com. p. 828. f Basil Hall, Vol. 111. p. VJb. 



22 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

among the American statesmen, the reader will perhaps 
feel some difficulty in deciding, whether the increase of the 
slave population in the United States, or its murderous 
decrease in the British sugar-colonies, supplies matter for 
the most melancholy and indignant reflections. 

•' In proportion to the mviltiplication of the descendants of 
the European stock, and the consequent diminution of the value 
of slave labour, by the general diminution of wages, will there 
be an abatement in the force of motives to rear slaves. The 
master will not find an adequate indemnity in the price of the 
adult for the charges of maintaining and bringing up the off- 
spring. His care and attention will relax ; and he will be in- 
different about incurring expenses when they are sick, and in 
providing for their general comfort, when he knows that he will 
not be ultimately compensated. There may not be numerous 
instances of positive violation of the duties of humanity, but 
every one knows the difference between a negligence which is 
not criminal, and a watchful vigilance, stimulated by interest, 
which allows no want to be unsupplied. The effect of this re- 
laxed attention to the offspring will be, to reduce the rates of 
general increase of the slave portion of our population, whilst 
that of the other race, not subject to the same neglect, will in- 
crease and fill up the void. A still greater effect, from the di- 
minution of the value of labour, will be that of voluntary eman- 
cipations ; the master being now anxious to relieve himself 
from a burthen, without profit, by renouncing his right of pro- 
perty. One or two facts will illustrate some of these principles. 
.Prior to the annexation of Louisiana to the United States, the 
supply of slaves from Africa was abundant. The price of 
adults was generally about 100 dollars, a price less than the 
cost of raising an infant. Then it was believed that the climate 
of that province was unfavourable to the rearing of negro 
children, and comparatively few were raised. After the United 
States abolished the slave trade, the price of adults rose very 
considerably ; greater attention was consequently bestowed on 
their children ; and now, nowhere is the African female more 
prolific than she is in Louisiana, and the climate of no one of 
the Southern States is supposed to be more favourable to rear- 
ing the offspring. The serfs of Russia possess a market value 



OF FRKE ANB SLAVE LABOUR. 23 

inferior to that of the African slaves of the United States ; and, 
although the lord is not believed to be bound to provide for the 
support of his dependent, as the American master is for his 
slave, voluntary manumissions of the serf are very frequent, 
influenced in some degree, no doubt, by his inconsiderable 
value. 

" What has tended to sustain the price of slaves in the 
United States, has been, that very fact of the acquisition of 
Louisiana, but especially the increasing demand for cotton, and 
the consequent increase of its cultivation. The price of cotton, 
a much more extensive object of culture than the sugar-cane, 
regulates the price of slaves as unerringly as any one subject 
whatever is regulated by any standard. As it rises in price, 
they rise : as it falls, they fall. But the multiplication of slaves, 
by natural causes, must soon be much greater than the increase 
of the demand for them ; to say nothing of the progressive de- 
cline which has taken place in that great Southern staple, with- 
in a few years, and v/hich there is no reason to believe will be 
permanently arrested. Whenever the demand for the cultiva- 
tion of sugar and cotton comes to be fully supplied, the price of 
slaves V, ill begin to decline ; and as that demand cannot pos- 
sibly keep pace with the svipply, the price will decline more 
and more. Farming agriculture cannot sustain it ; for it is be- 
lieved, that nowhere in the farming portion of the United States 
would slave labour be generally employed, if the proprietor 
were not tempted to raise slaves, by the high price of the South- 
ern market, which keeps it up in his own. 

" But neither this nor any other conceivable cause can, for 
any length of time, check the fall in the value of slaves to which 
they are inevitably destined. We have seen that, as slaves di- 
minish in price, the motive of the proprietors of them to rear 
the offspring will abate, that consequent neglect in providing 
for their wants will ensue, and consequent voluntary emanci-. 
pation will take place. That adult slaves will, in process of 
time, sink in value even below a hundred dollars each, I have 
not a doubt. This result may not be brought about by the 
termination of the first period of their duplication, but that it 
\vill come, at some subsequent, and not distant period, I tln'nk 
perfectly clear. Whenever the price of the adidt shall be less 
than the cost of raising him from infancy, wlial inducement will 



24 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

the proprietor of the parent have to incur that expense ? In 
such a state of things, it will be in vain that the laws prohibit 
manumission. No laws can be enforced or will be respected, 
the effect of which is the ruin of those on whom they operate. 
In spite of all their penalties, the liberation or abandonment of 
slaves will take place." 

Here, then, we have arrived at the startling, the damn- 
ing fact, that slave labour is not only dearer than free la- 
bour, but that its profitableness absolutely depends upon 
keeping down the increase of the slave population. The 
natural fecundity of the negro would otherwise work out 
the emancipation of his race. The excess of labourers 
above all possibility of employing them, would render them 
a ruinous charge and burden to their owner. The slave- 
market itself would in time be glutted, as it well nigh is at 
present in the United States. * America, remarks the 
Author of an eloquent discourse on Slavery, -{- " to be safe, 
must either be virtuous enough to emancipate her slaves, or 
wicked enough to introduce the midwives of Egypt, the 
Crypieia of Lacedaemon, or the night-work of Jamaica."" 
Slavery can perpetuate itself, only by this murderous dimi- 
nution of the human species. Nature herself is the con- 
stant enemy of the slave-owner, threatening him continually 
with an inundation of his living capital, that shall destroy 
his profits, and ruin him with his own wealth. 

It is obvious, then, that no slave-owner can have any in- 
ducement to economize labour, however dear that labour may 
be, because that very economy would be fatal to him, unless 
he could get rid of the superfluous labour. He not only 
can afford to waste that labour, and to destroy the life that 
yields it, by wearing out the labourer, but it is his interest to 
do so, to prevent its unprofitably accumulating upon his 

* Mr. Hodgson was informed, that from 4000 to 5000 per annum are 
sent down to New Orleans. Letters, &c. Vol. I. p. 194. 
f Halley's " Sinfulness of Colon. Slavery," p. 23. 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 25 

hands. All that he can wish is, to keep up the numbers of 
his slaves, unless he were permitted to sell the redundant 
increase. But, in point of fact, so dear is slave labour on 
the one hand, and of so little value the life of the slave on 
the other, that, in order to realize his profits upon that la- 
bour, the planter finds it necessary to sacrifice a certain 
quantity of slave life, and to exact an excess of toil at the 
cost of a diminution of numbers. Slavery must be abolished, 
with the burdens which it entails, before the motive to em- 
ploy the cheaper labour of the freeman, or to economize the 
dear labour of the slave, can come into operation. 

II. 
But, although slave labour may be ordinarily dearer than 
free labour, so as to be infallibly displaced by it whenever 
they can be brought into fair competition, as in the agricul- 
tural States of America ; still, it may be thought, that the 
cultivation of sugar and other tropical produce forms an 
exception to the general rule. It is admitted, that " sugar, 
rice, and cotton are almost the only articles of profitable 
slave labour ;"" and that " hence it has become the dearest 
species where they cannot be produced."* But, in respect 

* This conviction, or rather this ascertained fact, is assigned by an Ameri- 
can writer as the explanation of the readiness of American slave-holders, 
" whose benevolence revolts at the idea of selling their slaves," to manumit 
them gratuitously, on the sole condition of their being removed to Africa. 
In proof of this, the following instances are adduced. " Mr. Minge, of 
Charles County, Virginia, not only emancipated more than eighty slaves, 
for the purpose of sending them to Hayti, but chartered a brig for their 
transportation, furnished them with supplies, and distributed a peck of 
dollars among them as a farewell present. Mr. Henshaw, near Richmond, 
liberated sixty, to be sent to Liberia. A year or two subse(iuently, a gen- 
tleman in Kentucky writes to the Society, that he ' will give up twelve or 
fifteen of his coloured people now, and so on gradually, till the whole are given 
up (sixty), if means for their passage to Liberia can be provided.^ In Janu- 
ary ll{2!i, olfers were peiuling to the Society of more than two liinidred slaves 
ready to be niauumitled on the same conditions. At that time, thirty liad 
just been sent out from 3Iarylaud, and tweiily-iivo from Soulii Carolina • 



26 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

to these, it may be contended, that free labour, even if 
cheaper, would be inapplicable, and could not be employed. 
To examine the grounds of this doubt or allegation, forms 
the second step of our present inquiry. 

And here we are met at once by the broad fact, that all 
the sugar cultivated in India, the original country of the 
cane, is cultivated by free labour. It is also notorious, that 
the sugar grown by slave labour cannot compete in cheap- 
ness with that which is grown by free labour in the East 
Indies. Attempts have been made to escape from the con- 
clusive force of this fact, by representing the East India 
sugar to be the produce of slave labour ; but this represent- 
ation is utterly devoid of the semblance of truth. What- 
ever may be the condition of the servile classes on the 
coast of Malabar, where no sugar is grown, the agriculture 

and to pass over several hundreds more, who have either been colonized, or 
necessarily neglected for want of funds, and as many more whose freedom 
has been provided for by will, on condition of removing, vie find it stated in 
Mr. Carey's pamphlet, and in the last Annual Report of the Society, that 
in North Carohna and the adjacent States alone, ' the applications for trans- 
portation of free negroes, and slaves proposed to be emancipated on condi- 
tions of removal to Liberia, far exceeds its means,' From three to four 
thousand of both descriptions, we are afterwards informed, are ready to em- 
bark. In 1830, it appears, that the Society of Friends belonging to the State 
just named, had enabled six hundred and fiftyrtwo coloured persons under 
their care to emigrate, with an unknown number of children, husbands, 
and wives, connected with them by consanguinity. Many of them are un- 
derstood to have been slaves. Their generous benefactors had then ex. 
pended nearly thirteen thousand dollars ; and four hundred and two per- 
sons remained, who were also to be removed. It is not easy to calculate 
how much more rapidly this process might have gone on, had the Society 
directed its entire attention to promotftig it. This they have not been in a 
situation to do with propriety. Until the last season, they have not even 
employed a General Agent for the Western States ; and yet, the person now 
acting in that capacit}'', writing to the Secretary a few months since from 
New Orleans, observes, that he has found more men of influence and dis- 
tinction, (slave-holders,) who manifest an unshaken determination to sustain 
any effort that may be made in favour of the catise, than in any other place. 
He then gives a detail of facts, which shew, l^hat hundreds are ready 
to be manumitted in all the ^'^'^estern States, whenever the means of sending 
them off shall bematured." North Amer. Rev. No. Ixxvi. p. 148. 



OF FREE AXD SLAVE LABOUR. 27 

of the Bengal provinces, which supply the whole of the sugar 
exported from India, is entirely conducted by free labour. 
Slavery, indeed, of a mild character, is not unknown 
in Bengal. " Throughout some districts," it is stated in 
an official document, " the labours of husbandry are exe- 
cuted by bond servants. In certain provinces, the plough- 
men are mostly slaves of the peasants for whom they labour ; 
but, treated by their masters more like hereditary servants, 
or like emancipated hinds, than like purchased slaves, they 
labour with cheerful diligence and unforced zeal. In some 
places, also, the landholders have a claim to the servitude of 
thousands among the inhabitants of their estates. This claim 

is seldom enforced, and slaves of this description do, 

in fact, enjoy every privilege of a free man, except the 
name : or, at the worst, they may be considered as villains 

attached to the glebe Though we admit that slaves (of 

this description) may be found in Bengal among the la- 
bourers in husbandry, yet, in most provinces, none but free- 
men are occupied in the business of agriculture."" The price 
of their daily labour is less than 2d. sterling ; and, " viewed 
in every way, labour is six times, perhaps ten times, dearer 
in the West Indies than in Bengal.""* 

The following Extract from a Minute of the Bengal 
Board of Trade, Aug. 7? 1792, is important, not only as 
confirming the above statement of the fact, but for the light 
which it throws on the causes of the superior cheapness of 
labour, and of the sugar raised by such labour in Bengal, as 
compared with the slave labour and produce of the West 
India Colonies. 

" The agriculture of the latter is carried on under circumstances 
so forced and unnatural, that, while they excite the indignation 

■* Extracts from Remarks on the Husbandry of Bengal, in Report of 
Lords' Committee, p. 802. Sir Edw. Hyde East, who was a West Indian, 
but held a lii;^h official situation in the J'^ast, said, " there was such a thing as 
slavery in India, l)ut it was not recognized by the (iovernment : if a slave 
fbose to leave his master, the laiv n'onld not prevent it." 



28 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

and pity of the philosopher, they create his astonishment that a 
concurrence of incidents in human affairs could ever have esta- 
blished them. In order to obtain a rude produce of the ground, 
human beings have been forced from a country about 4000 miles 
distant from that which they are to cultivate ; and, whatever 
may have been their former condition or habits of life, are com- 
pelled to the rudest toil. None of the West India labourers 
are aborigines, none of them are freemen. The whole are slaves 
imported as above described, or the descendants of such imports ; 
and their population is so continually on the decrease, that re- 
gular supplies from Africa are deemed necessary to keep up 
the requisite mimber. So confined are the territories of these 
islands, at least of the British West India islands, and of seve- 
ral of the French, that, without neglecting those productions 
which are the objects of the northern nations, they are unable 
to furnish the food necessary for the support of their own inha- 
bitants. Grain, flour, salt meat, and salt fish are carried, at a 
great expense, from the distant regions of Europe and North 
America, and form the principal subsistence of the slaves. 

" It is superfluous to dwell upon the heavy charge of the 
establishment of overseers and superintendents requisite for 
urging the labour of the slaves ; but it is sufficient to observe, 
that the expense of obtaining the produce of the ground by such- 
means will necessarily be above the natural level, 

" In Ais country (Bengal), the cultivator is either the imme- 
diate proprietor of the ground, or he hires it, as in Europe, of 
the proprietor, and uses his discretion in cultivating what he 
thinks best adapted to the nature of the soil or the demand of 
the market. One field produces sugar ; the next, wheat, rice, or 
cotton. The husbandman is nourished and clothed from his 
own ground ; or, if he thinks it more his interest to sell the 
whole of his produce, supplies himself and family with the ne- 
cessaries of life from his neighbour, or from the next public 
market. 

" In the British West India islands, the value of a seasoned or- 
dinary man slave, in the prime of life, is about 60^. say C. Rs. 
600, and the interest of money is there about six per cent. ; 
consequently, C, Rs. 36 per annum is the value of the stock 
per head, supposing the stock permanent, Rs. 36 per annum 
is more than the average price of labour in this country. The 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 29 

death of the slaves decreases the stock in the proportion, taking 
the matter in a general view, that the number of slaves born in 
the islands are insufficient to k.eep up the requisite number with- 
out importation from Africa. The Bengal peasantry are free- 
men, and are, in the usual course of nature, replaced by their 
children. 

" Other circumstances have their effects. The West India 
slave has no interest in the success of his labour. A good crop 
alleviates not his condition, a bad one renders it not worse, while 
he receives his daily ration of European or American grain and 
salt provision. There is no cheering motive to animate his in- 
dustry. The proprietor of the estate often resides in Europe, 
and leaves the management to hired servants, to the conse- 
quences of whose knavery and negligence he is open, while his 
slaves are exposed to their want of humanity. 

*' The Bengal Peasant is actuated by the ordinary wants and 
desires of mankind. His family assist his labour, and soothe 
his toil, and the sharp eye of personal interest guides his 
judgment. 

•' Of superiority of soil on either side, the Board are incom- 
petent to speak, but they observe that those provinces contain 
a great variety of very excellent soils. Two circumstances they, 
however, notice. 

" In the West India islands, mills and boiling-houses greatly 
abridge labour, but these mills and boiling-houses are expensive 
structures. In Bengal, the mill and places for boiling the juice 
cost very little indeed ; they are extremely simple, slight, and 
cheap. The difference of value between the two, must compen- 
sate, in a great degree, the greater quantity of labour the latter 
require. In one respect, however, labour is certainly less. In 
the West Indies, works are stationary. The cane, a heavy ma- 
terial when just cut, must be carried to them from the most dis- 
tant parts of the plantation ; a very laborious business. In 
Bengal, the mill, boiling vessels, and covering shed are so ex- 
tremely light that they are easily removed from field to field as 
occasion requires, and consequently prevent the labour of dis- 
tant carriage of the cane. 

" In the West Indies, the whole labour of the ground is per- 
formed by hand with the spade or hoe. Here, the ox and plougli, 
as in Europe, lessen the labour of man, and facilitate tlu; pro- 
ductions of the earth. 



30 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

" Great part of the West India islands are frequently subject 
to hurricanes so violent that they destroy the sugar-works and 
ruin the planter. This country is not so often, nor to so great 
a degree, subject to similar calamity ; and were a sugar- work to 
be entirely destroyed, the loss would be trivial. Inundations 
are frequent, but the cane is cultivated upon grounds so high as 
generally to be above the highest rise of the river." 

East India Sugar, ^c. First Appendix, pp. 52, 53. 

In the work on East India sugar, from which this is 
taken, extracts are given from a letter addressed to the 
Hon. the Court of Directors by William Fitzmaurice, Esq., 
dated Calcutta, February 6, 1793. This gentleman, having 
lived in Jamaica sixteen years, during which he had been 
employed in the cultivation and management of sugar es- 
tates on both sides of the island, must be regarded as tho- 
roughly competent to form a decisive opinion respecting the 
comparative advantages of the two countries ; and he ex- 
presses that opinion in the following terras. " From the 
luxuriant fertility of this country, I think it is amply com- 
petent to the supply of all Europe with sugars ; and that 
even the West India planters themselves might import 
them from hence 07i much easier terms than they can 
afford to sell sugars in the curing-houses upon the plant- 
ations. . . . The cultivation of the cane will employ thousands 
of poor people that are to be seen in all parts of this coun- 
try in real want ; and inasmuch as the cultivation of the 
sugar-cane destroys annually, in the West, thousands of 
men, women, and children by incessant toil, it will save 
the lives of thousands in the East, by giving them employ- 
ment and sustenance." * 

The evidence of Mr. Botham, printed in the " Report 
of the Committee of the Lords of the Council appointed for 

* Ihid. p. 857. The mechanical process used in Bengal for expressing the 
cane juice, is extremely rude, awkward, and unprofitable ; but, by any 
tolerable care and attention to the West India mode of clarification and 
boiling in the first process, the writer remarks, the soil might be rendered 
equally productive. 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 31 

the consideration of all matters relating to Trade and Plant- 
ations, March 28, 1789," is too important to be omitted. 
This gentleman, after passing two years in the English and 
French West India islands, was employed in conduct- 
ing some sugar-estates in the East Indies ; and he offers 
his evidence in proof that sugar of a superior quality and an 
inferior price to that grown in the West India islands, is 
produced in the East Indies, where the culture of the cane, 
as well as the manufactin-e of the sugar and arrack, is carried 
on, he says, by free people. " China, Bengal, the Coast 
of Malabar, all," he proceeds, " produce quantities of 
sugar and spirits ; but the most considerable gi-owth of the 
cane is carried on near Batavia." He then describes the 
improved manner in which sugar-estates were there con- 
ducted by Chinese husbandmen and manufacturers on the 
estates of the Dutch proprietors, explaining its superiority 
over the West India mode of cultivation ; and states, " that, 
having experienced the dijference of labourers for profit 
and labourers from force,'''' he " can assert that the savings 
by the former are very considerable." " The West India 
planter," continues Mr. Botham, " for his own interest, 
should give more labour to beast, and less to man. A 
larger portion of his estate than is now allotted, ouo-ht to be 
in pasture. When it is practicable, canes should be car- 
ried to the mills in waggons ; cane tops and grass to the 
stock in the same manner ; the custom of making a hard- 
worked negro provide a bundle of grass twice a day, abo- 
lished; and in short, a total change take place of that 
miserable management our West India islands are now 
under. By this means, following as near as possible, the 
East India mode of culture, consolidating the distilleries, 
I do suppose, our possessions in the sugar islands might 
be better worked than they now are, by two thirds, or 
i?ideed half of the present force em2>loyed. Let it be con- 
sidered how much labour is lost by the persons necessary to 



32 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

oversee the forced labourer, all of which is saved when he 
works for his own profit. I have stated with the strictest 
veracity, a plain matter of fact. The sugar estates can he 
worked cheaper by free persons than by slaves. Whether 
the African slave-trade can be abolished, and the blacks in 
the West Indies emancipated, is for the consideration of the 
Legislature. As far as my judgement goes, these desirable 
purposes can be effected without materially injuring the 
West India planter. He has but to improve his culture, and 
lessen human labour, and the progeny of the present blacks 
in our colonies will answer every purpose of working the 
West India estates,"* 

Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles, in his History of Java, 
gives some interesting details relating to the cultivation of 
the cane, by the natives, to be eaten as a sweet-meat, but by 
the Chinese for the juice. " The quality of the sugar made 
in Java is considered to be equal," he says, " to that of 
Manilla and the West Indies. Considerable quantities are 
sent to the Malabar coast, but the principal exportation is 
to Japan and Europe." Mr. Crawfurd, in his History of 
the Indian Archipelago, has given a long account of the 
husbandry of the sugar-cane, and furnishes the following 
estimate of its comparative market value. 

" The quality of Java sugar will be best ascertained from 
comparing it with other sugars in the market in which it is best 
known. When a pound of Java sugar, mixed brown and white, 
sells in the market of Rotterdam for 10^ groats, 

Bengal sells for 9 groats. Brazil sells for 10 groats. 

British West India 9 i Havannah . 14 

Surinam . . .9^ Manilla . . 10 

It may be observed in respect to the quality of these sugars, 
that those of Manilla, Java, and the Brazils, are nearly equal. 

* Report, &c. pp. 8fi7— 9. Mr. Botham for some time conducted some 
sugar -works at Bencoolen bj' free labourers. Marsden, in his History of 
Sumatra, highly commends his management, and states, that the expenses, 
particularly of the slaves, had frustrated many former attempts of the En- 
glish to cultivate the sugar-cane profitably at that place. 



OF FREE AND ST, AVE LABOUR. 33 

" Edwards has estimated the price of growing sugar in Ja- 
maica at 1 85. 9d. per cwt. By the estimate I have furnished, 
this is 125 per cent, dearer than Java sugar." * 

Not only in Java, but both in Cochin China and in 
China, the cane is cultivated, and sugar manufactured with 
success, according to the testimonies of Sir George Staun- 
ton, Mr. Abel, Mr. Barrow, and M. de Guignes, and 
other travellers of note and authority. In fact, an attempt 
was made to plant a colony of Chinese in the Mauritius, 
for the purpose of trying tlie experiment of cultivating sugar 
there by free labour. But it was found, that freedom and 
slavery could not simultaneously exist. " This," says Mr. 
Buxton, " is a point established by all the information that 
has been collected on the subject ; that there must be a pure 
system of slavery, or a pure system of freedoti; that they 
cannot be united together." -f* 

In further proof, however, of the feasibleness of culti- 
vating sugar, even in gangs, by free labour, the official 
report of Mr. Ward, late the British Envoy to Mexico, 
affords a most remarkable testimony. The following abridged 
transcript comprises all the facts bearing on our present 
argument : 

" Mexico, March 13, 1826. 
" Sir, 

"The possibility of introducing a system of free labour 
into the West India Islands having been so much discussed in 
England, I conceived that it might not be uninteresting to His 
Majesty's Government to receive some details respecting the 
result of the experiment in this country, where it certainly has 
had a fair trial. 

" I accordingly took advantage of Mr. Morier's prolonged 
stay here, to visit the Valley of Cuernavaca, and Cuantla Amil- 
pas, which supplies a great part of the federation with sugar 
and coffee, although not a single slave is at present employed in 
their cultivation. 

• Cited in Report of liorrls" Committpe, p. nf)7. -I- Report, p. 869. 

D 



34 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

" The valley which extends almost uninterruptedly from Cuer- 
navaca to Cuantla Amilpas, and Jyncar, (covering a space of 
about forty miles,) is situated on the road to Acapulco, at the 
foot of the first range of mountains by which the descent from 
the Table Land towards the south-west commences, about fifty 
miles from the Capital. It is about 2,000 feet lower than the 
Table Land of Mexico. The difference of temperature is pro- 
portionably great, so that two days are sufficient to transport 
the traveller into the very midst of Tierra Caliente. 

" It is believed that the sugar-cane was first planted there 
about one hundred years ago ; from that time, the number of 
sugar-estates has gone on increasing, until there is now hardly 
an acre of ground on the whole plain which is not turned to 
account. The cultivation was originally carried on entirely by 
slaves, who were purchased at Vera Cruz, at from 300 to 400 
dollars each. It was found, however, that this system was 
attended with considerable inconvenience, it being impossible to 
secure a sufficient supply of slaves during a war. The losses 
likewise, at all times, were great, as many of the slaves were 
unable to support the fatigue and changes of temperature, to 
which they were exposed on the journey from Vera Cruz to 
Cuernavaca, and perished, either on the road, or soon after 
their arrival. 

" Several of the great proprietors were induced by these cir- 
cumstances to give liberty to a certain number of their slaves 
annually, and, by encouraging marriages between them and the 
Indians of the country, to propagate a race of free labourers, 
who might be employed when a supply of slaves was no longer 
to be obtained. 

" This plan proved so eminently successful that, on some of 
the largest estates, there was not a single slave in the year 1808. 

" The policy of the measure became still more apparent on 
the breaking out of the revolution in 1810. 

" The planters who had not adopted the system of gradual 
emancipation before that period, saw themselves abandoned, and 
were forced, in many instances, to give up working their estates, 
as their slaves took advantage of the approach of the insurgents 
to join them en masse ; while those who had provided them- 
selves with a mixed cast of free labourers, retained, even during 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 35 

the worst times, a sufficient number of men to enable them to 
continue to cultivate their lands, although upon a smaller scale. 

" The scale upon which these estates are worked, is enormous. 
From a supposition that the ground is exhavxsted by two succes- 
sive crops, the INIexican planters run into the contrary extreme, 
and divide their sugar-lands into four equal parts, one only of 
which is taken annually into cultivation. The remaining three 
are turned to no account, so that an idea may be formed of the 
extent of an estate upon which so enormous a quantity of land 
is allowed to remain unemployed. 

" The crops are usually most abundant, the cane being planted 
much thicker than is customary in Jamaica, and the machinery, 
in the opinion of Dr. Wilson, who accompanied me, and who 
has been much in the West India Islands, is fully equal to any 
used in the British colonies. 

" The number of workmen generally employed upon an estate 
capable of producing 40,000 arrobas of sugar, amounts to 150, 
with occasional additions when the season is late, or the work 
has been retarded by any accidental cause. 

" The labourers are mostly paid by the piece, and many of 
them can earn, if industrious, from six to seven rials per diem. 
(35. 3d. or 3s. d^d. English money, reckoning the dollar at 45. 4d.) 

" Fifty men are employed in watering the canes ; twenty in 
cutting, ten in bringing the cut canes from the field, (each with 
six mules,) twenty-five (mostly boys) in separating the green 
tops, which they use for fodder, and binding up the remainder 
for the muleteers ; twenty men, divided into gangs of four each, 
in feeding the engine day and night; fourteen attend the boilers; 
twelve keep up the fires ; four turn the cane in the sun, after the 
juice has been expressed, and dry it for fuel; and ten are con- 
stantly at work in the warehouse, clarifying the sugar, and 
removing it afterwards to the general store-room, from whence 
it is sent to the market. 

" The art of refining, though well understood, is seldom or 
never carried beyond the first degree of the process, there being 
no demand for double-refined sugar in the market; and the con- 
sequence is, that, though abounding in saccharine matter, the 
article is for the most part coarse in appearance, and of a bad 
colour. 

•' The arroba of 2olbs. sells in Mexico for about three dollars, 

n 2 



36 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

or two dollars and a half, if not of the best quality. The great 
haciendas expend in wages to the workmen, and other current 
charges, from 800 to 1,200 dollars a week. 

" It often happens, however, that in a good year the sale of 
the molasses alone is sufficient to defray this expense, so that the 
sugar remains a clear profit. 

"For every arroba of sugar an equal quantity of molasses is 
produced, which sells, at the door of the hacienda, for five rials 
and a half the arroba. It is bought up by the proprietors of the 
small distilleries, which abound to such a degree, that, in the 
neighbourhood of Cuernavaca alone, from 25,000 to 30,000 bar- 
rels of Chingarito (a sort of rum) are made annually. 

"The distance from Cuernavaca to Cuantla is about twenty- 
five miles; and, with the exception of a ridge of mountains 
which separates the two valleys, the whole intervening space is 
richly cultivated. 

" It is a curious fact, that an immense quantity of sugar is 
yearly remitted to Vera Cruz, not for exportation, but for the 
home consumption of a province which might produce sugar 
enough to supply all Europe, if it chose to turn to account the 
advantages with which nature has so richly endowed it. 

" The most remarkable circumstance, however, is the total abo- 
lition of slavery in a district where such a mass of colonial fruits 
is produced, and the success with which the introduction of free 
labour has been attended. It is this which has induced me to lay 
these observations before His Majesty's Government, and to hope 
that they may be esteemed not wholly unworthy of its attention. 

(Signed) " H. G. Ward."* 
" Right Hon. G. Canning, &c. &c." 

Scarcely less remarkable and to the point is the account 
given by Baron Humboldt, of the successful result of an 
experiment made by a noble proprietor of an extensive dis- 
trict in the valley of Aragua, in Colombia, some years 
before the late revolution in South America. During the 
learned Traveller's stay at Cura, he was surprised to wit- 
ness in every direction, not only the progress of agriculture, 
but the increase of a free laborious population, accustomed 
to toil, and too poor to rely on the assistance of slaves. 

* Anti Slavery Reporter, vol. iii. p. 36 — 39. 



OF FKKK AND SLAVE LABOUR. 3^ 

" Our host," (Count Tovar,) he proceeds to state, " whose 
father had a revenue of 40,000 piastres, possessed more 
lands than he could clear; he distributed them in the 
valleys of Aragua among poor families, who chose to apply 
themselves to the cultivation of cotton. He endeavoured 
to surround his ample plantations with freemen, who, work- 
ing as they chose, either on their own land, or in the neigh- 
bouring plantations, supplied him with day-labourers at the 
time of harvest. Nobly occupied on the means best adapted 
gradually to extinguish the slavery of the Blacks in these 
provinces. Count Tovar flattered himself with the double 
hope of rendering slaves less necessary to the landholders, 
and furnishing the freed-men with opportunities of becom- 
ing farmers. On departing for Europe, he had parcelled 
out and let a part of the lands of Cura, which extend to- 
ward the west at the foot of the rock of Las Viruelas. Four 
years after, at his return to America, he found on this 
spot, finely cultivated in cotton, a little hamlet of thirty or 
forty houses, which is called Punta Zamuro, and which we 
afterwards visited with him. The inhabitants of this hamlet 
are almost all Mulattoes, Zamboes, or free Blacks. This ex- 
ample of letting out land has been happily followed by se- 
veral other great proprietors. The rent is ten piastres for 
a vanega of ground, and is paid in money, or in cotton. 
The price of hands is cheaper here than in France. A 
freeman, working as a day-labourer {peon), is paid, in the 
valleys of Aragua, and in the Llanos, four or five piastres 
a month, not including food, which is very cheap on account 
of the abundance of meat and vegetables. I love to dwell 
on these details of colonial industry, because they prove to 
the inhabitants of Europe, what to the enlightened inhabit- 
ants of the colonies has long ceased to be doubtful, that the 
continent of Spanish America can produce sugar and 
indigo hy free hands: and that the unhappi/ staves are 



38 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

capable of becoming peasants, farmers, and landhold- 
ers. * 

This truly enlightened and philosophic Traveller, whose 
extensive opportunities of observation give weight to his 
opinion on such a subject, takes repeated occasion to expose 
the impolicy as well as inhumanity of slavery. Admitting, 
for argument sake, that sugar could be cultivated only by 
slaves, he shews that the total aggregate of the slave popu- 
lation in the West Indies, is nearly three times greater 
than the number actually employed in the cultivation of 
sugar. " Those," he remarks, " who repeat incessantly, 
that sugar cannot be cultivated but by black slaves, seem 
to be ignorant, that the Archipelago of the West Indies 
contains 1,148,000 slaves, and that the whole mass of the 
colonial produce of the islands is obtained by the la- 
bour of only five or six hundred thousand. More than 
three-fourths of the Brazilian slaves are occupied neither in 
gold washings nor in the cultivation of colonial productions, 
which, we are gravely told, render the slave trade an in- 
evitable political crime." -|- In this point of view, M. 
Humboldt contends, that slavery, " the greatest of evils 
that afflict humanity," is made to press upon three times the 
number of individuals that are required for the agricultural 
labours which are supposed to demand slave labour. So 
unreasonable and delusive is the pretext that is set up for 
the perpetuation of slavery in the Colonies. 

But it has been sufficiently shewn, not merely that sugar 
and other colonial produce can be cultivated by free laboiu:, 
but that the produce of free labour would soon drive that of 
slave labour out of the market, were it not for the bounties 
and protecting duties which have hitherto enabled the 
West India planter to maintain, not a fair competition, but 

* Humboldt's Pers. Narr. Vol. IV. pp. 126—8. 
t Pers. Narr. Vol. VII. pp. 208, 9. 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 39 

an odious and pernicious monopoly. Strange to say, the 
produce of free labour has been discouraged by our Legisla- 
ture, in order to protect that which involves the perpetu- 
ation of crime and misery. The cane is virtually forbidden 
to grow in its indigenous soil, where God has planted it, 
that we may force its cultivation in another hemisphere, by 
means which His word condemns ; — ^by holding thousands 
and hundreds of thousands of our fellow-men in the most ^ 
abject and degrading bondage. We have first transplanted 
the cane itself, and then have transported Africans across 
the Atlantic, to cultivate it with tears and blood ; while, in 
India, there were already provided to our hand, the plant, 
the soil, and the free labour. Or we might have taken the 
cane to Africa, and there have established . our colonies in 
regions not more pestilential than Demerara or the Antilles. 
Instead of this, we have compromised the interests of both 
India and Africa for the sake of the West India monopoly. 
Nor is this the whole amount of the sacrifice. We speak not 
now of the cost of life which the maintenance of this system 
has rendered necessary ; although the conquest of India 
itself, which has placed under the British supremacy more 
than an eighth part of the human race, might be shevrn to 
have cost fewer lives than have been sacrificed at the blood- 
stained altars of the Kali of the western world. Colonial 
Slavery. " Of the crowds who yearly and daily emigrate 
from their houses to those possessions," remarks Mr. Jere- 
mie, (late first President of the Royal Court of St. Lucia,) 
" how many return ? Of the military, what hundreds 
of thousands have not perished there !* The slight insur- 

• " The loss of money, be it ever so great, cannot compare with 
the cruel waste of life occasioned by sending our soldiers to those pestilen- 
tial regions, whose very atmosphere is, in many cases, death to theuninured 
whites, and certain loss of health to all. In 1820', of the eighty-three regi- 
ments then in the British service, twenty were placed in the West Indies, 
being only three less than the number of those which were then stationed in 
distracted Ireland, (excluding the reserve corps,) and only six less than are 
in Ireland at this present eventful crisis. While twenty regiments were 



40 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

rection of 1796 in St. Lucia, cost Great Britain, of regulars 
alone, 4000 men. More blood has been spiltinthat small island, 
in warfare, within the last half century, than in any part of 

required for the West Indies, nine were deemed sufficient for Britain. If 
we inquire, against what enemy so large a force was accumulated, we find 
the West Indies threatened with no danger from without ; their only dan- 
ger was from within. The British fleet had possession of the sea ; Britain 
was at peace with all the world ; but slavery could not be maintained with- 
out the presence of a force, which might have spread the influence of Britain 
over the furthest east, buC which, without a battle or an enemy, was wasting 
away under the influence of a West Indian climate. 

" In June 1829, when Parliament ordered the returns to be laid before 
them of the mortality of our army in the West Indies, those returns were 
withheld ; and Parliament acquiesced in the non-production of them, on 
the implied understanding that they contained details too horrible to meet 
the public eye. 

" The then Secretary of War, Sir Henry Hardinge, was reported to have 
said, that the inspection of these returns would 'be too horrifying for the 
public' What then are we to think of the iron nerves of those rulers 
who can calmly surrender their fellow -citizens to evils too horrible to be 
contemplated ? 

" Will the Secretary of War exult in having nerves to execute that, which 
the body of the nation are not supposed to have nerves to bear the recital of ? 
But has Britain much reason to rejoice in rulers who possess so extraordi- 
nary a pre-eminence above their fellow-citizens, in the intrepidity with which 
they can contemplate human life unprofitably squandered away ? Anxiously, 
however, as they were concealed, a part of those horrors have transpired. 
The then Secretary of War is understood to have allowed that, out of three 
regiments, consisting of 2700 men, sent to one of the islands, one-third had 
perished in one season ! If the choice had been ofi^ered to those unfortunate 
regiments, to decline the duty, on condition of having every third man of 
them shot upon the spot, they would have been gainers, had they preferred 
the horrible alternative. They would have been spared the previous pangs 
of wasting sickness ; they would have died in their own land, and in the sight 
of their friends, bedewed with their tears, and been buried by their hands. 
Nor let us suppose that the loss of these regiments was limited to a third. 
Death did not cease his work the following years, though his havock may be 
most dreadful on the first- How many more might have perished, or what 
feeble remnants of these devoted regiments might have returned to their 
country, is known only to the Secretary of War, and those of his colleagues 
who have nerves to face the greatness of the disaster. No doubt, if the pre- 
sent colonial system were, abolished, we might still be obliged to keep up 
some military force in the West Indies ; but a much less might suffice, and 
the regiments might mainly consist of blacks, upon whom the climate does 
not produce such baleful eff'ects, and who might relieve the white troops of 
the most wasting part of their duty. But, while slavery exists, so large a 



OF FllEK AND SLAVE LABOUR. 41 

the world, except Belgium. Vvlth reference to the life of the 
slave, during the continuance of the slave-trade, and 7ww in 
Martinique^ if a newly purchased slave lasted Jive years, 
the speculation was a good one. In thirteen years, the 
whole labouring population was said to be renewed. On the 
other hand, in all the Duke of Wellington''s continental 
wars, commencing with his landing in Spain, and concluding 
with Waterloo, the killed in action, it is said, did not 
amount to one fifth of the number systematically consumed, 
since the peace, in the small island of Martinique. Nor do 
they equal half the decrease in our own colonies within the 
last ten years.* Now reckon the number of slaves in the 
British colonies, the number of them in the United States, 
(possessions formerly British,) and the length of time this 
wholesale consumption of human life has been carrying on ; 
and judge of the fearful responsibility that attaches to this 
nation. -|- 

white force is absolutely necessary to maintain the system of compulsory la- 
bour and the lash." — Douglas's Address on Slavery, &c. 

The average mortality, according to documents given by Edwards, is II5 
per cent, per amium. See Edwards's West Indies, vol. v. Appendix. 

* According to a statement, drawn entirely from official documents, and 
delivered in by Mr. Buxton in his examination before the Lords' Committee, 
the total decrease in the slave population on the sugar colonies in eleven 
years, has been 52,539 on a population of little more than 800,000, being 
more than a 16th. 

•f- In the one hundred and six years from 1680 to 1786, there were 
imported into the British West India Islands, according to the custom- 
house registers, 2,130,000 negroes from the coast of Africa; and yet, in 
the year I788, the total slave population of those colonies was estimated at 
only 454,160 souls, being little more than one-fifth part of the number 
imported. In the course of three centuries, Jamaica alone has received from 
Africa, 850,000 negroes, (between the years I70O and 1808 nearly 677,000,) 
and yet, that island does not now possess more than 346,150 slaves and 
about 40,000 free Macks, - considerably less than half the number of Africans 
imported, notwithstanding the strong mixture of white blood in the present 
slave population. Before the abolition of the slave-trade, Jamaica lost 
annually 7,000 individuals, or2i percent, on the slave population. Taking 
into account the ntimbers lost in the middle passage, in order to produce the 
present black population of the British West Indies and the United States, 
bond and fret', f about 3,3.50,000,) and allowing for the increase on the slave 



42 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

"And what for?'" continues Mr. Jeremie. " To change 
the very face of nature. Columbus and the earlier navi- 
gators have described these older colonies as they stood 
clothed in the most brilliant verdure: they are now arid, 
parched, and exhausted. Cultivation elsewhere converts 
deserts into gardens; here, gardens into a desert. How 
comes it that St. Lucia, Trinidad, and Demerara are still 
so rich and fertile? Because they are but recently inha- 
bited. And why but recently inhabited.? Because those 
very parched and exhausted colonies originally presented 
greater inducements.* 

Speaking of the island of St. Lucia, this gentleman thus 
remarks upon the anomalies which it presents. " It pro- 
duces every kind of wood, even to the most precious ; yet, 
chairs and tables are more cheaply obtained from England. 
Its pasturages are among the finest in the world, requiring 
little care, and at a nominal rent ; and yet beef salted and 
brought from Europe, is cheaper than the fresh beef of the 
country. . . . With land sufficient to furnish the whole West 
Indian islands with ground provisions, a population not 
amounting to one twentieth the number the island can sup- 
port, alternately fluctuate between famine and superabund- 
ance. When provisions are scarce, the free population 
and the slaves plant freely, and the market is soon furnished 
to repletion ; the remainder is then allowed to rot on the 
ground, until a scarcity produces re-action. In short, one 
kind of interest only exists, and that is pampered and fos- 
tered to its own destruction. Now, indeed, the planter is 

population of the United States, from four to five millions at least of Africans 
must have been torn from their native shores, and forcibly borne across the 
Atlantic. The vast numbers of those born in the islands that have perished 
prematurely as the victims of slavery, can be estimated only by the fact, 
that every eight or ten years, while the trade continued, the slave popu- 
lation must have been renewed, either by births or by fresh imports, and 
this during more than a century ! See Humboldt, Vol. vii. p. 147—152. 
* Jeremie on Colonial Slavery, p. 39 — 40. 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 43 

truly wretched ; for his fetters only remain, and he clings 
to them from habit and necessity. Weighed down by his 
home connewions, and by the very nature of his property ^ 
he ivorks, and feels he must work on, to his all but inevi- 
table ruin. In a free country, the minds of the million 
are stimulated to separate exertion : each seeks out new 
channels of employment. There is an elasticity in free 
communities, which soon re-establishes a certain degree of 
prosperity ; but in slave countries, the million are mere 
machines ; the minds of the hundred alone are at work ; 
and even they find the application of brute force sufficient 
for their purpose : so that the very manufacture which 
they have laboured in for centuries, is still in its infancy. 
And this fact again accounts for the assumed natural stu- 
pidity of the negro." * 

In shewing that sugar and other tropical productions may, 
in common with all other produce, be raised more advan- 
tageously by free labour, we are not bound to prove that 
such labour could be profitably combined with the present 
wasteful and barbarous agriculture. In estimating the com- 
parative advantages of Free and Slave labour, we have a 
right to take into account all the labour that might be saved, 
when it should become the interest of the planter to econo- 
mize labour. If, for example, ten free labourers could do 
the work of twenty slaves, we are not required by our argu- 
ment to prove, (although this perhaps might be proved,) 
that twenty free labourers would cost less than twenty slaves. 
If free labourers would do in twelve hours the same quan- 
tity of work that an equal number of slaves would perform 
in sixteen, we are not concerned to prove that free persons 
would labour for wages sixteen hours a day, as the slaves 
arc compelled to do under the whip. Suppose it should be 
found that the free labourer was found unwilling to submit 
to the disgusting toil of the manure basket, the planter 

• Jeremie, pp. 50, 60. 



44 THE COMrARATlVK COST 

would be no loser by being compelled to adopt a less waste- 
ful method ; or even were he reduced to the necessity of 
substituting the plough for the hoe, in order to make free 
labour available for the culture of sugar, he would have no 
great reason for either complaint or regret. * One special 
advantage which he would derive from the abolition of sla- 
very, is the necessity it would lay him under, of taking 
some steps forward in the improvement of his husbandry. 
By the present system, the master or owner is fettered as 
well as the slave. The planter cannot discharge his la- 
bourers. His capital, being invested in the purchase of his 
slaves, is fixed and inconvertible. He has no alternative 
but, whether at a profit or a loss, to work them on. Even 
if made sensible how much it would be for his interest to 
introduce those improvements in colonial husbandry that 

* In Mr. Loving's Evidence before the Commons' Committee, the fol- 
lowing important statements occur relative to this point : 

" Is it not the fact, that they could not cultivate the sugar cane otherwise 
than by acting in gangs, as they do in a state of slavery, which is adverse 
to the natural condition of people in a state of freedom ? — I think that the 
planters have depended too much upon manual labour in the cultivation of 
their estates, and hence the avidity they shew for having large gangs. I 
think a great deal of the machinery of this country might be introduced 
into the West Indies with considerable advantage ; there is, for example, 
a gang called the weeding gang ; now I consider them quite an unnecessary 
thing. 

" With reference to cane hole digging, have you ever contemplated the 
substitution of machinery for manual labour for that process? — Certainly; 
there are several planters, who are more wise than others, who make use 
of the plough constantly. We know that the plough can turn up the soil, 
and other machinery reduce it into that state in which the cane can be 
planted. 

" Must it not be the interest of the planter to diminish the number of 
slaves upon his estate, and to substitute, as far as possible, machinery for 
manual labour ? — Unquestionably. 

" And yet is it not the fact, that manual labour is held to be indispensable 
for the cultivation of sugar ? — There is no doubt that that is the fact. 

" How do you account for the planter, whose interest it is to substitute 

machinery for manual labour, not doing it to a greater extent ? Because 

I conceive he has not sufficient confidence in the superior benefits of ma- 
chinery to manual labour." 



OF FKEE AND SI.AVF. LABOUK. 45 

would economize labour and improve the soil, he is, in many 
cases, not at liberty to adopt a different system ; because, 
although it would benefit the planter, it would not sviit the 
consignee or merchant. If the sugar crops were diminished 
in order to increase the provision crops, or to promote the 
rearing of cattle with a view to the use of the plough, the 
merchants"' commissions, both on the sugar imported and the 
supplies exported, would be abridged. They are therefore 
opposed to all improvements in the system, and the plant- 
ers are in their power. The mortgagee may threaten to 
foreclose, and the dependent borrower has no option but to 
submit. The sugar must be raised, at whatever cost of 
negro life, at whatever loss to the planter.* Yet, so well 
aware is the merchant that sugar-planting by Slave labour 
is a losing game, that he prefers, for the most part, the risk 

* This is more especially the case where the proprietor is an absentee. 
The estates that are in debt, are usually managed by an attorney, and the 
receivers appointed are generally very oppressive. (See Evidence of Vice- 
Admiral Fleming before the Commons, 2915.) The following case has 
occurred. An attorney or manager of an estate receives an imperative 
order from England to raise and export a given quantity of sugar. His ex- 
perience enables him to calculate the number of slaves who will probably 
fall victims to the requisite exaction of excessive labour. He reasons with 
himself thus. " If I refuse to execute this order, I shall be discharged 
from my situation. If I execute it, it will occasion the death of so many 
negroes on the estate; the loss will be imputed to my mismanagement ; and 
in that event also, I may lose my place." But the latter alternative pre- 
sents a chance, and he adopts it. The sugar is produced ; the predicted num- 
ber are worked to death; and the overseer is blamed by the absentee, if not 
dismissed. Upon whom devolves the guilt of the cruelty? Speaking of the 
island of Cuba, Humboldt says : " The mortality of the negroes is very 
different, as in all the West Indies, according toitie kind of culture^ the hu- 
manity of the masters and overseers, and the number of negresses who can 
take care of the sick. There are plantations in which from 15 to 18 peT 
cent, perish annually. / have heard it coolly discussed, whether it were better 
for the proprietor not to fatigue the slaves to excess by labour, and conse- 
quently to replace them less frequently, or to draw all the advantage pos- 
sible from them in a few years, and replace them oftener. Stich are the 
reasonings of cupidity, when man employs man as a beast of burden ! " Per- 
sonal Narr., vol. vii. p. 152. 



46 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

of losing his money, to the greater risk of becoming the 
proprietor of the mortgaged plantation ! Such is the pre- 
dicament to which the sugar-planter has been brought by 
an infatuated adherence to a barbarous system of cultivation ; 
a condition to which he could not have been reduced, had 
he employed free labour. He is himself a bondsman to a 
system which is to him, if we may be allowed the expression, 
as " a law of sin and death." Because he must grow sugar, 
he must have slaves ; and because he has slaves, he must grow 
sugar. Within this vicious circle, his ideas and arguments move 
round, spell-bound, or rather mortgage-bound.* His ca- 
pital, his living capital, is diminishing year by year, while 
his necessities are consequently requiring more and more 
produce to be extorted from an impoverished soil by more 
and more labour. Is this an overcharged description ? 
Hear what Bryan Edwards, the great champion of the 
West India colonists, says upon this point. 

" The produce of these islands, though of such value to the 
mother country, is raised at an expense to the cultivator, which, 
perhaps, is not equalled in any other pursuit, in any other country 
of the globe. It is an expense, too, that is permanent and cer- 
tain ; while the returns are more variable and fluctuating than 
any other, owing to calamities to which these countries are ex- 
posed both from the hands of God and man ; and it is mournful 
to add, that the selfish, or mistaken policy of man is sometimes 
more destructive than even the anger of Omnipotence."f 

This is true, in a sense in which, probably, the writer did 
not intend the remark to be taken. Speaking of the pro- 
gressive decline in prosperity of almost all the islands, which 

* The Government Bank (at Cape Town) has of late discontinued the 
practice of accepting the mortgages of slaves. It were to be wished that 
the Colonial Church at the Cape would follow its example. This intermi- 
nable system of mortgaging presents the greatest harrier to emancipation. By- 
it, the owner's hands are tied up from doing an act of justice and mercy." 
Wright's Slavery at the Cape of Good Hope, (1831,) p. 63, note. 

f Edwards's Hist, of the W. Indies, 3th ed. vol. i. p. 513. 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 41] 

had, at that time, (1798,) been observable for many years, 
Edwards says : — 

" The negroes, indeed, have been kept up, and even augmented, 
hy purchase," (the slave-trade was not then abolished,) " because, 
as the lands have become impoverished, they have required a 
greater exjjense of labour to make them any way productive ; but, 
as the returns have not increased in the same degree, nothing 
could have saved the p)lcinters from ruin, but the advanced price of 
sugar in the markets of Europe. " * 

In every other branch of agricultural industry, as cultiva- 
tion is extended, as the produce is multiplied, from the na- 
tural effect of competition, the article is cheapened, till it 
approaches the lowest price at which it can be brought to 
market. What must be the character of that husbandry 
which requires an ever advancing price to meet the diminish- 
ing profits upon the produce ? But hear again Bryan Edwards. 

" In contrasting the profits of a West Indian plantation with 
those of a landed estate in Great Britain, this circumstance is 
commonly overlooked ; yet nothing is more certain than that an 
English proprietor, in stating the income which he receives from 
his capital, includes not in his estimate the profits made by his 
tenants. These constitute a distinct object, and are usually 
reckoned equal to the clear annual rent which is paid to the 
proprietor. Thus a farm in England, producing an income of 
3^ per cent, to the owner, is in fact proportionably equal to a 
sugar-plantation yielding double the profit to the planter ; and 
possesses besides, all that stability, certainty, and security, the 
want of which is the great drawback on the latter. An English 
gentleman, when either extreme of dry or wet weather injures 
the crop on his lands, has no other concern in the calamity than 
such as the mere feelings of humanity may dictate. Nor is he 
under the disagreeable necessity in time of war, of paying large 
premiums for insuring his estate from capture by a foreign 
enemy. This is another tax, which the vmfortunate West Indian, 
resident in Great Britain, must add to his expenses ; or submit 
to the disagreeable alternative of passing many an uneasy day 

' Edwards's Hietory, vol. i. p. 510. 



48 THE COMTAllATIVK COST 

and sleepless night, in dreadful anxiety for the fate of his pos- 
sessions, and the future subsistence of his family; — harassed 
perhaps, at the same time, by creditors whose importunity in- 
creases as their security becomes endangered. 

" But there is a question, naturally arising from the premises, 
to which it is proper that I should, in this place, give an answer ; 
and it is this : Seeing that a capital is wanted which few men 
can command, and considering witlial, that the returns are in 
general but small, and at best uncertain, how has it happened 
that the sugar islands have been rapidly settled, and many a 
great estate purchased in the mother-country, from the profits 
that have accrued from their cultivation ? It were to be wished 
that those who make such inquiries would inquire, on the other 
hand, how many unhappy persons have been totally and irre- 
trievably ruined, by adventuring in the cultivation of these 
islands, without possessing any adequate means to support them 
in such great undertakings ? On the failure of some of these 
vmfortunate men, vast estates have indeed been raised by per- 
sons who have had money at command : men there are who, 
reflecting on the advantages to be derived from this circum- 
stance, behold a sugar planter struggling in distress, with the 
same emotions as are felt by the Cornish peasants in contem- 
plating a shipwreck on the coast, and hasten with equal rapa- 
ciousness to participate in the spoil. Like them too, they some- 
times hold out false lights to lead the unwary adventurer to 
destruction ; more especially if he has any thing considerable of 
his own to set out with. Money is advanced, and encourage- 
ment given, to a certain point ; but a skilful practitioner well 
knows where to stop ; he is aware what very large sums must 
be expended in the purchase of the freehold, and ii) the first 
operations of clearing and planting the lands, and erecting the 
buildings, before any return can be made. One-third of the 
money thus expended, he has perhaps furnished ; but the time 
soon arrives when a further advance is requisite to give life and 
activity to the system, by the addition of the negroes and the 
stock. Now then is the moment for oppression, aided by the 
letter of the law, and the process of office, to reap a golden har- 
vest. If the property answers expectation, and the lands pro- 
mise great returns, the sagacious creditor, instead of giving 
further aid, or leaving his too confident debtor to make the best 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 49 

of his way by his own exei'tions, pleads a sudden and unex- 
pected emergency ; and insists on immediate re-payment of the 
sum already lent. The law, on this occasion, is far from being- 
chargeable with delay ; and avarice is inexorable. A sale is 
hurried on, and no bidders appear but the creditor himself. 
Ready money is required in payment, and every one sees that a 
further sum will be wanting to make the estate productive. 
Few therefore have the means, who have even the wish, effica- 
ciously to assist the devoted victim. Thus, the creditor gets 
the estate at his own price, commonly for his first advance ; 
while the miserable debtor has reason to thank his stars if, con- 
soling himself with only the loss of his own original capital, and 
his labour for a series of years, he escapes a prison for life. 

" That this is no creation of the fancy, nor even an exagge- 
rated picture, the records of the courts of law, in all or most of 
our islands, (Jamaica especially,) and the recollection of every 
inhabitant, furnish incontestable proof. At the same time it 
cannot justly be denied, that there are creditors, especially 
among the British merchants, of a different character from those 
that have been described, who, having advanced their money to 
resident planters, not in the view of deriving undue advantages 
from their labours and necessities, but solely on the fair and 
honourable ground of reciprocal benefit, have been compelled, 
much against their inclination, to become planters themselves ; 
being obliged to receive unprofitable West Indian estates in 
payment, or lose their money altogether. I have known plant- 
ations transferred in this manner, which are a burthen instead 
of a benefit to the holder ; and are kept up solely in the hope 
that favourable crops, and an advance in the prices of West 
Indian produce, may, some time or other, invite purchasers. 
Thus, oppression in one class of creditors, and gross injustice 
towards another, contribute equally to keep up cultivation in a 
country, where, if the risks and losses are great, the gains are 
sometimes commensurate ; for sugar-estates there are, undoubt- 
edly, from which, instead of the returns that I have estimated 
as the average interest on the capital, double that profit lias been 
obtained. It is indeed true, that such instances are extremely 
rare ; but perhaps to that very circumstance, which to a philo- 
sopher, speculating in his closet, would seem sufficient to deter 
a wise man from adventuring in tliis line of cultivation, it is 

E 



50 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

chiefly owing that so much money has been expended in it : I 
mean the fluctuating nature of its returns. The quahty of sugar 
varies occasionally to so great a degree as to create a difference 
in its marketable value of upwards of ten shillings sterling in 
the hundred- weight, the whole of which is clear profit, the duties 
and charges being precisely the same on Muscovado sugar, of 
whatever quality. Thus fine sugar has been known to yield a 
clear profit to the planter of no less than 1,500^. sterling on 200 
hogsheads of the usual magnitude, beyond what the same num- 
ber, where the commodity is inferior in quality, would have 
obtained at the same market. To aver that this difference is 
imputable wholly to soil and seasons in the West Indies, or to 
the state of the British market, is to contradict common obser- 
vation and experience. Much, vmdoubtedly, depends on skill 
in the manufacture ; and, the process being apparently simple, 
the beholder (from a propensity natural to the busy and inqui- 
sitive part of mankind) feels an almost irresistible propensity to 
engage in it. In this, therefore, as in all other enterprises 
whose success depends in any degree on human sagacity and 
prudence, though perhaps not more than one man in fifty comes 
away fortunate, every sanguine adventurer takes for granted 
that he shall be that one. Thus his system of life becomes a 
course of experiments, and, if ruin should be the consequence 
of his rashness, he imputes his misfortunes to any cause, rather 
than to his own want of capacity or foresight."* 

Needs there be added any thing to this faithful repre- 
sentation of the causes of the distress of the West India 
planter, drawn, five and thirty years ago, by their great 
authority and advocate? What anti-slavery writer could 
have painted in stronger colours the ruinous consequences 
of the present system ? Is it wonderful, to use again the 
words of Edwards, that " the profits of the planter should 
frequently dwindle to nothing; or rather, that a sugar- 
estate, with all its boasted advantages, should sometimes 
prove a mill-stone about the neck of its unfortunate propri- 
etor, which is dragging him to destruction ?""t 

■* Edwards, vol. ii. pp. 301—307. 

•f Ibid. p. 301. As far back as the twenty years from 1772 to 1792, the 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 51 

If sugar cannot be profitably grown by free labour, it is 
manifest, tbat it cannot, with profit to the planter, be pro- 
duced by slave labour, except by means of bounties and 
protecting duties, which shall delay a little longer, and 
only a little longer, the inevitable catastrophe.* We speak 
of the cultivation of sugar, because it is chiefly for that 
species of husbandry that the manual labour of slaves has 

Committee of the Jamaica Assembly reported, that there had been, in the 
course of that time, 177 estates sold for debt, and 55 thrown up; while, at the 
end of that period, 92 estates remained in the hands of creditors. In the 
Report of the Select Committee of the House of Commons, April 13, 1832, 
it is remarked, that it appears from the Report of the Committee of 1807, 
" that during the late war, and while still supplied with slaves from Africa, 
the jilanters complained of inadequate returns, and of unequal competition in 
foreiffn markets. These results were then ascribed to the circumstances of 
the war, which has long ceased, and were necessarily independent of the 
causes now alleged. Your Committee are well aware that this similarity 
of complaint, and discrepancy of assig-ned reasons, have occasioned some dis- 
trust of the accuracy of those which are now put forward." 

" The existence of severe commercial distress," remarks Vise. Goderich, 
(now Earl of Ripon,) in his despatch of Nov. 5, " amongst all classes of 
society connected with the West Indies, is unhappily but too evident. Yet 
what is the just inference from this admitted fact ? Not that the body 
should yield to despair, but that we should deliberately retrace the steps of 
that policy which has led to so disastrous an issue. Without denying the 
concairrence of many causes, it is obvious that the great and permanent 
source of that distress which almost every page of the history of the West 
Indies records, is to be found in the institution of Slavery. It is vain to hope 
for long-continued prosperity in any coTintry in which the people are not 
dependent on their own voluntary labour for support, in which labour is 
not prompted by legitimate motives, and does not earn its natural reward. 

I cannot but regard the system, itself as the perennial spring of those 

distresses of which, not at present merely, but during the whole of the last 
fifty years, the complaints have been so frequent and so just." 

Lord Belmore holds similar language. On the eve of his departure from 
the Colony, he tells the Jamaica House of Assembly: "The cause of youi- 
present distress results from that policy by which slavery was originally 
established ; and this fine island can never develop the abundance of its 
resources while slavery continues." 

• The planters, in their rage against our Legislature, talk of asserting 
their independence. If it were worth while to expose the utter folly of this 
seditious and insolent threat, it would be sufficient to remark, that, suppos- 
ing these islands to become independent, they could have no staple of sugar, 
for no country would pay the extra price which tliey refjuire for their j>ro- 
duce. 

e2 



52 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

been supposed to be indispensable. If free labour can be 
advantageously employed in the cultivation of the cane, no 
one will dispute, that coffee, cotton, indigo, ginger, and 
other colonial produce may be grown by free labour. If 
wages can be substituted for the whip on a sugar-plantation, 
the whole question is determined.* 

It will now, we hope, be thought, that we have esta- 
blished our first and second propositions, viz. that free 
labour is cheaper than slave labour, and that this general 
axiom does not admit of any exception in reference to the 
growth of sugar and other tropical produce. Sugar is grown 
by free labour, and at less cost than by slave labour, in 
Bengal, in Java, in Siam, in China, in Colombia, in 
Mexico : what mysterious cause, physical or moral, prevents 
the cultivation of this same article by free labourers in the 
West India islands ? The sole and simple cause is, the 
existence of Slavery. This however, is denied ; and the 
answer of the planter would probably assign as the obstacle, 
the supposed difficulty or uncertainty of securing free la- 
bourers. Many of them go so far as to admit, that free 
labour would be preferable, and even cheaper, if it could be 
secured; but they imagine that their control over the la- 
bour of the negroes absolutely depends upon their arbitrary 
property in their persons ; and that no power could put in 
motion the living mechanism employed in cane-hole digging 
and other processes, but the cart-whip. We proceed then 
to the third branch of our inquiry. 

* It is an important fact, mentioned by Mr. Cropper, that " though the 
American cultivation of cotton by slavery, has almost wholly superseded its 
growth in our colonies, and greatly checked its increase in the Brazils, yet, 
the Carolinians themselves have been driven out of the cultivation of indigo, 
in consequence of its still cheaper production by free labour in the East In- 
dies." Review, &c. p. 20. 



OF FKEE AND SLAVE LABOUll. 53 

III. 

Is IT POSSIBLE TO SECURE A REGULAR SUPPLY OF FREE 
LABOUR IN THE SUGAR COLONIES, IN THE EVENT OF ABO- 
LISHING THE CONDITION OF SLAVERY ? 

Although, in West India phraseology, a slave and a ne- 
gro are synonymous terms, it is necessary that, in entering 
upon this branch of our inquiry, we should remind the reader, 
that they do not mean precisely the same thing. There is such 
a thing to be met with on a West India sugar-plantation, as 
a field slave who is very far from being, in blood and breed, 
a negro : though legally black, he is physically brown, some- 
times closely approaching to white.* On the other hand, 
there is such a class as free blacks, who do in fact svipport 
themselves by their labour. The time was, when it might 
be disputed, whether the African could be induced to labour 
by the motives which are found to operate on all other spe- 
cies of the human race. As regards those who are already 
free, this can no longer be considered as problematical. 
That even the emancipated slaves would support themselves 
by their own labour, will not be doubted by any one who 
has the slightest knowledge of their habits, and of the very 
small amount of labour which would suffice to place them 
in comfort.-]- 

* " I dare say it is consistent with your Lordships' knowledge, that many 
of the present slaves (in Jamaica) are the children of Englishmen and Scotch- 
men, some of them the sons of the daughters of such persons, and smne of 
them as white as ourselves ;• they get English feelings, and they long for 
English knowledge, and I think thej'^ have an influence on the mass." 
Evid. of Rev. W. Knibb, Report of Lords' Com. p. 805. In the slave States 
of America, " it is often so difficult to distinguish between the fruits of 
mixed intercourse and the children of white parents, that witnesses are 
summoned at Court to solve the problem." Garrison's Thoughts, &c. p. 145. 

-|- Even now, it must be recollected, the slaves chiefly support themselves 
by their own voluntary labour on their provisioii-grouTids. The following 
statement occurs in theevidenceof Robert Scott, Esij. of Trelawney, Jamaica. 

" How does lie maintain himself now ? - ]5y his ])rovision-grouii(ls, and if 
these fail, his master must support him, and ho has bis clothing fiom iiis 
master. 

" How 



54 THE COMI'ARATIVE COST 

" It is assumed,'" remarks the Archdeacon of BarbadoSy 
"• that the slaves will become idle on obtaining their free- 
dom ; but this is mere assumption. 

" The report of the privy council (1788) speaks, on the 
authority of witnesses from the British West India islands, 
of the ' invincible repugnance of the free negroes to all sorts 
of labour.' Messrs. Fuller, Long, and Chisholm declare, that 
' free negroes are never known to work for hire, and that they 
have all the vices of the slaves.' Mr. Braithwaite states, that 
* if the slaves in Barbados were all offered their freedom on 
condition of working for themselves, not one tenth of them 
would accept it.' Governor Parry reports, that ' free negroes 
are utterly destitute of industry ;' and the council of the island 
add, that, ' from their confirmed habits of idleness they are 
the pests of society.' — {Report, 1788, part 3.) — Strange, that 
in the face of these declarations proceeding from persons 
in high official trust and authority, the free blacks have, 
by their superior industry, driven the lower order of whites 
from almost every trade requiring skill and continued exertion ! 
I believe that not one in twenty of the working shoemakers in 
Barbados is a white man. The working carpenters, masons, 
tailors, smiths, &c. are for the most part men of colour ; and 
this at a time when a large white population are in the lowest 
state of poverty and wretchedness. In the application for ca- 
sual charity, the number of white persons soliciting relief is far 
greater than that of the free coloured. The free black and co- 
loured inhabitants have always contributed in their full propor- 
tion to the parochial taxes, for the support of the poor whites ; 
while their own poor receive no parochial relief, but are sup- 
ported by private contributions among the more wealthy of their 

" How many days' labour has lie now to employ for himself ? — His wife 
and children work in his provision-grounds as well as himself. 

" How many days' labour of the slave himself is sufficient to provide him 
Avith enough provisions for the year ? — The law allows him twenty-six days, 
which he still would require if he had provision -grounds; but I am assuming 
that he is to have no provision -grounds, according to that plan. 

*■' Does he not now maintain himself, according to your estimate, by 35 
days' labour in his grounds ? — Yes. 

" Does not the negro, at the present moment, by 35 days ' labour, main- 
tain himself and his wife and children with the provision-ground allotted to 
him by his master, independently of the allowance of fish and so on ? — Yeu, 
he does, generally speaking," (Q. 5249 — 5254.) 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 55 

own colour. Do these facts indicate habits of irreclaimable 
idleness ?"* 

From the very facility with which the negroes could pro- 
vide for their own subsistence, a difficulty, however, may 
seem to arise. Could they be induced to labour for wages be- 
yond the point necessary for their own maintenance ? Would 
the labour of those who are now slaves, if emancipated, be 
available to the sugar-planter ?-f- 

These are important questions, in their bearing both upon 
the interests of the colonies, and of the slaves themselves, I 
which require to be fairly and fully met. We shall endeavour 
so to meet them ; first, by citing instances in which eman- 
cipated slaves have continued steadily to labour for the profit 
of their employer, in the West India islands ; and secondly, 
by adducing those general considerations which warrant the 
reasonable expectation, that a like result of emancipation 
would ensue upon a larger scale. Should we but succeed in 
establishing the high probability of such a result, it will only 
remain to inquire, whether regulations of the nature of mu- 
nicipal police, or temporary restrictions, might not be de- 
vised, which, by coming in aid of ordinary motives, should 
convert that probability into certainty. 

* Eliot's Christianity and Slavery, pp. 225, 6. 

-|- " While, therefore," say the West India Proprietors in their recent 
circular, " it remains unascertained by actual experiment, that the negro 
will give continuous labour, and for reasonable wages, as a free man, — and 
while the weight of evidence and experience discourages the expectation of 
his willingly consenting to do so, — there must be the greatest danger that 
any hasty change of system, unaccompanied by regulations calculated to en- 
sure the slaves becoming an industrious peasantiy, and to teach the duties 
and obhgations of civil society, would lead to the immediate destniction of 
the colonies, and throw the black population back into a state of barbarism." 

J " If the slave be safe," said Mr. Borthwick, the hired champion of the 
West India party, (at Bath, Dec. 15, 1832,) " the planter must necessarily 
be safe : if the slave be perfectly free, the planter must liave his C()mj)ensa- 
tion in that fact alone. I say, then, that Wilmot Horton declared, ihe only 
thing the planters wanted, was not a compensation in money, bnt a compeiv- 
sation in the safety of the slave .'" — Discussion between Knibb and Borth- 
wick, p, 20. 



56 THE COMPAHATIVE COST 

The first remarkable case we shall adduce, is that of Sir 
Charles Price, who is stated to have been in the practice of 
setting free the best negro he had, every birth-day, on the 
condition that he should continue to live with him, and con- 
tinue in the same employment, and receive a certain salary 
all the year round. This case is mentioned in the evidence 
of Sir M. Clare, M.D., (a j^ro-slavery witness,) who resided, 
with occasional absences, 30 years in Jamaica, between 1798 
and 1831, and who thinks that emancipation would lead 
only to vice ! His reluctant admissions in the following 
examinations, are therefore the more striking. He is asked 
whether he thinks Sir Charles Price's practice was attended 
with a good effect ? He replies : — 

" It was attended with an excellent effect; none of them be- 
came licentious or idle negroes, but were imitated by every 
negro that could contrive to come in for the prize the next 
birth-day; and probably it would have gone on but for his 
death. 

Was he a resident proprietor ? — Yes. 

How do you account for his example not being followed ? — 
He was very rich, and was able to bear the expense ; at the 
same time I should state that he found the whole of his negroes 
improved ultimately. After his death, his property got into 
debt, and they could not afford to keep it up. 

According to that account he gave up nothing? — No; he 
actually increased his interest. 

His property was advantaged ? — Yes ; but he lived in a very 
profuse way, and when he died, his affairs were found to be di- 
lapidated, as far as that went ; but as far as this operated, they 
were improved. 

Did his debts arise from this emancipation? — I conceive 
not. 

Perhaps you are of opinion that Sir Charles Price experienced 
no pecuniary loss by the course he pursued, but rather the con- 
trary, from the improved condition and the improved industry 
of his other slaves ? — He certainly did ; there is no question 
about that fact. 

Did not he lose the wages he paid to those men ? — No ; he 
more than gained them by the improvement of others. 



OF FllKE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 57 

Did the emancipated slaves remain on the estate ? — They con- 
tinued there until their wages ceased to be paid to them. They 
did not fall into poverty, but while they continued to keep them 
up in this economical way, it succeeded remarkably Avell. 

Do you know what became of those persons on the property 
changing hands? — They went into the towns, and of course 
they were lost sight of." 

Sir Charles Price died about the year 1764. Sir M. 
Clare is asked, whether he conceives that any good might 
arise to the negro, if other proprietors were to follow his 
example. He hopes that it would, but interposes a dovibt, 
founded on the allegation, that the character of the negro 
is very much altered since then ! A little further, how- 
ever, he is asked to state his grounds for the opinion, that 
the character of the negro has retrograded, so as to render 
him less worthy of being entrusted now, than in the days of 
Sir Charles Price ; and his reply is : " The character is the 
same: the only difficulty would be in his being kept under 
the same authority to work." He is subsequently asked, 
whether he ever saw a free negro work in the fields, and 
whether he believes that any negro, having been a slave, 
would, after he was freed, work in the fields. His answer is : 
" Never. No (free) negro will ever lay hold of a hoe ; they will 
never touch it."* Now it is a little remarkable, that an expe- 

* The objection to handling the hoe, is not founded purely on its being 
the badge of slavery. It is, indeed, a formidable weapon. The West India 
hoe is nearly the width of a small spade, and weighs about 4 Ib.,^ — above 
six times the weight of the hoe used in this country. Nor is its enormoiis 
weight the only circumstance which adds to the labourer's toil.' " Formerly 
these hoes M'ere largely manufactured by the Sheffield edge-tool makers, and 
fetched good prices. Latterly, however, in reference to these implements, 
that town has been somewhat supplanted, in the estimation of the merchants 
who trade to the colonial market, by the smiths of Staffordshire, who fur- 
nish the goods on such terms as almost to preclude competition. They are 
wrought by means of a forge-hammer, or skelper, in the same manner as 
shovels; and unfortunately, like some of the latter articles, look very higlily 
as to workmanship, when in reality they arc exceedingly little worth. 
There ought at least to be a little steel ou tlie edge; but tliey have actually, 



58 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

rienced witness, examined before the Commons' Committee^ 
when asked whether the free blacks of Antigua engage willingly 
in labour, replies: "Certainly, upon all occasions : it is only 
to hold out the hope of reward before them, and they work 
cheerfully." " Do they engage in field labour ? " " They 
do not : the 'proprietors would not permit them to do it, 
lest it should have the effect of poisoning the minds of the 
slaves.""* Now, if the experiment has not been tried, (and 
how should it be, so long as the cart-v/hip is in use ?) if 
the proprietors would forbid a free negro from labouring in 
the field, how could Sir M. Clare know that no free negro 
would ever touch a hoe ? The fact is, the town negroes, 
whom he must refer to, are as distinct a class from the field 
negroes, as agricultural labourers are from artizans and me- 
chanics in this country. Mr. Loving, of Antigua, the 
witness last referred to, is asked : " Do you think that, 
if there existed no such objection in the minds of the pro- 
prietors to their engaging in field labour, the free blacks 
themselves would willingly engage in it ? " He replies : 
*' 1^0 free black at present in the towns would go upon a 
plantation, and engage in agricultural pursuits, because it is 
to be presumed that those free blacks in the towns are now 
earning their living in some industrious way, not so labo- 
rious as field labour. But, whether the slaves, if eman- 
cipated, would still go on with the cultivation of the soil, 
is another question.''''^ 

for the sake of cheapness, been ordered and manufactured entirely of iron ! 
The implements are unwieldy enough at best, and such as few persons in 
this country would like to be compelled to use, day after day, under a ver- 
tical sun ; there was little need, therefore, to deteriorate the efficiency of the 
hoe, or rather to deprive it of its edge altogether. But, in tools designed to be 
used by persons whose time and labour are accounted of no great value, and 
whose comfort is rated still lower, excellency of material and superiority of 

workmanship weigh nothing in the scale agairiKt cheapness and cupidity." 

Lardner's Cyclopedia. JManufactures in Metal. Vol. i., p. 143. 

* Report of Commons' Committee, Q. 1J)56, 1958. 

t Ibid. Q. 1959. 



OF FRE12 AXD SLAVE LABOUll. 50 

A little further on, this witness bears testimony to another 
most important fact. 

" In point of fact, is the free black man in the towns, so far 
as regards the possession of the means of livelihood and the ac- 
tual comforts of life, in a better condition than the slaves, 
speaking generally ? — Assm-edly, because he can earn as much 
in one day, as the slave gets from his master in one week for 
his allowance. 

" In point of fact, does the free black person possess greater 
means of subsistence, and has he more of the actual comforts of 
life, than the slave upon an estate ? — He has in every respect ; 
and a reference to the case of the African apprentices lately 
emancipated, would prove that. 

" Will you state what you know of the case of the emanci- 
pated apprentices? — In 1828, there were 371 captured negroes, 
and 26 Creole escheated slaves, liberated from further depend- 
ence on the Crown in the island of Antigua. I think the con- 
duct of these people, since their liberation, a fair proof by 
which to ascertain the fitness of any colonial slaves for speedy 
emancipation. With the solitary exception of a case of petit lar- 
ceny, no others of their whole number have been guilty of any 
breach of the laws of the island down to the period when I left 
it; that was in July last, and they were pursuing an industrious 
course for their own support. Some of these Africans were 
employed by me from time to time as hodmen, while others, 
both male and female, lived in my immediate neighbourhood ; 
and this gave me an opportunity of discovering personally their 
industry, the avidity with which they coveted the possession of 
money and other property, their love of fine clothes, and the 
desire of copying, as close as possible, the dress, manners, and 
speech of the Creoles ; and in some instances, they have suc- 
ceeded in gaining the advantage of the natives in these several 
respects. With reference to their industry, it is notorious, that 
most of the lal)orious work in the town of St. John is performed 
by them. Several employ themselves as fishermen, some as 
mariners and bargemen ; otliers as hodmen, porters, and liouse 
servants, and in fact all kinds of labour except agricultural; 
tliat branch of industry having been forbidden while they were 
under the control of the collector of His Majesty's Customs, 



60 THE COMPAllATIVE COST 

according to the terms of the indentures by which they were 
bound to several persons ; and moreover, their services were 
never sought after by the planters, as agricultural labourers, 
since the period when they were liberated, because I conceive 
that no planter could be brought to hazard the employing of 
free raien as labourers on the soil among the slaves of his plant- 
ation, from the fear that they would inject into the minds of 
the slaves, notions of liberty, which would be incompatible with 
the interests of their owners. Many of the women have become 
active hucksters and venders of dry goods and provisions in the 
markets ; some are house-maids, some laundresses, and others 
drudges. But the most remarkable facts are, that not fewer 
than 5 per cent, have purchased their own houses, including 
three freeholds; and of the 371 who received their certificates 
of liberation, only one man and five women have returned upon 
the bounty of the Crown, and even these were obliged to do so 
by medical advice, because they were decrepit and unfit for 
labour. 

" Have you yourself authenticated these facts ? — I have. At 
the time that these people were set at liberty, there were not a 
few persons in the island who believed that they would become 
burthensome to the community. It was considered that, being 
Africans, not many years from their native wilds, and not being 
equally well informed with the Creoles, nor possessing generally 
an equal knowledge of right and wrong, when thrown upon 
their own hands after several years' maintenance by the Go- 
vernment, they would be reduced to a state of mendicity and 
wretchedness, and become a tax upon the public ; but these 
fearful anticipations were soon succeeded by an assurance that 
they were totally groundless. Notwithstanding their general 
quiet conduct, for a period of two years and a half after their 
liberation, I would not attempt to say that there are not some 
of bad principles among them. In fact, I have heard said, that 
there were svich ; but it would be strange indeed, if, among so 
many persons, there should be found none that were free from 
blame. Perhaps, after all, their greatest crime may be found 
under the denomination of insolence ; but those who make this 
charge, pay very little attention to the circumstance that these 
Africans have not forgot their native freedom, and that they 
have penetration enough to discern that they cannot be insulted, 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 61 

in the manner that a slave is, with impunity. During their ap- 
prenticeship, some of their masters and mistresses desired to 
exercise the same control over them as they would over slaves ; 
but, as this was forbidden by the terms of their indentures, and 
resisted by the apprentices themselves, it left an incurable 
rankling in the minds of the defeated party. 

" Were they all, to a certain degree, educated? — I cannot 
say that ; but even the worst of them were sufficiently enlight- 
ened to know that they ought to conduct themselves as good 
•members of society; and hence those results have followed, 
that, since the period of their liberation up to the time I came to 
England, there was not one of them, with the exception of one 
for petit larceny, that had been convicted before any court. 

"Do not you consider that their orderly conduct and their good 
behaviour since their emancipation is much to be ascribed to the 
discipline which their minds and characters have received 
through education and religious instruction; and suppose, for 
instance, the same number of persons without the advantages of 
any religious instruction had been so emancipated, would you 
have expected the same good results from it ? — No. 

" Was their religious instruction and their knowledge gene- 
rally superior to that possessed by the slaves in the island of 
Antigua? — By no means."* 

The case of the free blacks of Trinidad may next be 
cited. In September, 1816, a number of American blacks 
(632), who had taken refuge with the British forces during 
the war, were brought to Trinidad, and located there ; and 
in the following year, 63 female prize negroes, taken in 
slave-ships, were added to their number. In January, 1821, 
79 more refugee American slaves joined the settlement, 
which now consisted of 77'^ individuals. Notwithstanding 
the great disparity of the sexes, (for no other addition was 
made to the settlement from any other source,) at the close 
of J 825, their numbers had risen to 923, being an increase 
of 20 per cent, in eight years, or 2} per cent, per annum. 
Tlie following account of their condition is taken from Par- 
liamentary documents. 

• fJonimons' Report, Q. 1.080—9; 1994— G. 



62 



THE COMPARATIVE COST 



" Mr. Mitchell, their superintendent, states, that they labour 
very industriously in their own grounds, and maintain them- 
selves and their families in comfort, being persons of peaceable 
and domestic habits, and of moral and religious lives. They 
are also, as he testifies, perfectly willing, at least the men among 
them, to hire themselves to labour in plantation-work on sugar- 
estates, at reasonable rates, chiefly by the piece, and that the 
labour they undertake to perform is generally well exe- 
cuted. 

" Sir Ralph Woodford, the governor, had put the question to 
Mr. Mitchell, * Whether sugar-estates could be carried on en- 
tirely by free labour ? ' Mr. Mitchell is of opinion, that the 
main obstacle to their doing so arises from the necessity under 
which sugar-planters consider themselves to be placed, of caus- 
ing their labourers to work in the manufacture of sugar for six 
hours of the night, as well as for twelve hours of the day. In 
a letter dated 27th June 1823, he thus writes in reply to the 
governor: — ' I do not think they could,' (that is, I do not think 
that sugar- estates could be carried on entirely by free labour,) 
' in the manner the work is carried on at present.' He then 
describes what that manner is — planters ' making large quan- 
tities of sugar in a given time, in many instances working 
eighteen out of twenty-four hours ; which constant labour the 
free settlers, whose circumstances render them independent, 
will not submit to.' But then he is of opinion, that even while 
that formidable obstacle remains to deter the free from engag- 
ing in all the same kinds of plantation labour with the slave, 
and therefore from carrying on sugar-estates entirely, as things 
are now conducted, • estates may be and are greatly assisted by 
them ; and in many instances within my own knowledge, the 
canes are planted and cut down, while the staves, hoops, and 
heading are split by them. And were the free population 
greater, I have no doubt that sugar-estates carrying on labour 
from sunrise to sunset might be worked by them, while the 
planter would receive moderate indemnification from his out- 
lay.'— No. 479 of 1827, p. ^2,. 

" In his examination before the Committee, he enters into 
some details on- this subject. Reducing the measure of land, 
and also of the value of the currency, to the British standard, 
he gives, at p. 5, the rates at which they are usually willing to 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 63 

labour on plantations by contract, executing well the work they 

undertake to perform, viz. — 

£. s. d. 

Cutting Ratoon canes, by the acre 2 10 

Cutting plant canes, by the acre 3 12 

Planting canes, ditto 151. 12s. 6c?. to 18 15 

Felling high woods, ditto 2 10 

Cutting wood, by the cord..... 2s. 8d. to 3 2 

At these rates, he thinks, they may earn at the rate of 4s. ster- 
ling a day. 

" The examinations of the Committee of the Council of 
Trinidad appear to have extended to other emancipated per- 
sons besides the refugee slaves from the United States. Mr. 
JNIitchell admitted, that none of the slaves who had been manu- 
mitted in Trinidad would consent to work as field labourers, as 
the slaves do. He bore his testimony, however, to the general 
industry of these manumitted slaves. Those of them who do 
not cultivate their own grounds as free settlers, which many of 
them do, work as journeymen tradesmen. He had never 
kflown a manumitted slave who had not been able to maintain 
himself when free. This evidence was confirmed by Mr. La- 
mont.— No. 479 of 1827, pp. 33, 34, and 45. 

" But this is not the only Parliamentary Paper which may be 
adduced in proof of the position, that the manumitted slaves of 
Trinidad, and their descendants, are fully competent to support 
themselves, and are a loyal and peaceable, as well as an indus- 
trious people. 

" A motion was made in the House of Commons, on the 6th 
of June, 1825, for a return of ' the sums raised for the support 
of tlie poor in Trinidad,' since the 1st of January 1821 ; and of 
the number and names of the persons receiving relief, distin- 
guishing the white from the free black and coloured paupers. 
A return was made to this order, and printed by order of the 
House of Commons, on the 9th of May 1826, No. 353.' It is 
as follows : That no sums appear to have been raised in that 
Colony for the relief of the Poor. Certified by H. P. Hill, 
Treasurer of the Colony. 

" There is also a paper, laid on the table of the House of 
Commons on the 12th of June 1829, No. 336, purporting to be 
a return of Mr. Hodgkiason, the Commissary of Population, con- 



64 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

taining an account of the labourers born free, and of the manu- 
mitted slaves, their property, and character, domiciled in Trini- 
dad in 1824. This paper gives an account of 2,080 families 
of the labouring class, all of whom, with scarcely an exception, 
appear to obtain a very adequate subsistence, either by labour- 
ing on land of their own, or by hiring themselves out, either as 
domestics or mechanics, or by carrying on petty traffic ; and 
not one word is said as if any of them were suffering from want, 
or were living by pillage, or were in the habit of disturbing the 
public peace. Nothing has since transpired to invalidate in the 
slightest degree the integrity of this return. 

" In 1 825, the number of the free black and coloured population 
of Trinidad, including the Indians, was about 15,150; more than 
five times the number of the white inhabitants. How many 
may have been added to that number in the six or seven years 
which have since elapsed, has not been any where officially 
stated ; but, assuming them to have proceeded at their previous 
rate of increase, the number of them on the 31st of December, 
1831, cannot have fallen much short, if the manumissions are in- 
cluded, of 18,500. What proportion of this body may be con- 
sidered as in the class of labourers, it may be difficult to con- 
jecture ; probably two-thirds of them are of that class, the re- 
mainder being of somewhat superior grades. Of these, indeed, 
many are known to be persons of very considerable wealth, 
intelligence, and respectability. Half the property of the Island 
is supposed to be in their hands ; and of their loyal and peace- 
able demeanour no doubt has ever been expressed, or can be 
entertained."* 

Another remarkable instance is mentioned by the Rev. 
W. S. Avtstin, in his evidence before the Commons' Com- 
mittee. (Q. 2272, 3; 2290,1.) 

" Have you seen in the slaves a considerable desire to possess 
extra comforts ? — I have. I beg leave to mention particularly 
two settlements of emancipated slaves in the colony of Surinam : 
they were emancipated, I believe, by violence in the first in- 
stance ; they emancipated themselves. I was for several years, 
but especially more particularly and constantly for about a year 
and a half, in the habit of trafficking with them : their employ- 
ment was, to bring down timber from the interior of the coun- 
* Lords' Report, pp. 939, 940. 



OF FKEE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 65 

try, which they had liewn, and sometimes sawed into planks 
and other things, and bartering them for rum, sugar, and any 
thing else ; they also brought surplus provisions, sometimes 
rice and yams, and various other things, and they accumulated 
considerable property for persons in their situation. I had, 
for instance, 10/. at a time of one man, in my own possession, 
keeping for him. A very intimate friend of mine, a physician 
and a planter, has told me, that he has had deposited with him 
to the amount of 300/. belonging to different individuals among 
these said negroes, for articles disposed of to him and to others. 

" Was it the produce of regular labour ? — Not having lived 
among them, I cannot say whether it was the produce of regu- 
lar daily labour, but it was of very hard labour, much more so 
than the cultivation of sugar. 

" Are those freed negroes generally drunken or sober in 
their habits? — Mine will be an extraordinary testimony in this 
respect, because, notwithstanding my intimate acquaintance 
with them for several years, I can most positively assert, that 
(though I have heard of such a thing) I never saw one of them 
in the slightest degree disguised in liquor. I consider them the 
most moral, in most of their habits, of any order of negroes I 
have ever met with. 

" What species of cultivation did they carry on ? — Rice and 
provisions of various kinds ; and they hew down a large quan- 
tity of hard timber, saw it into planks and pieces of wood for 
other purposes, which they bring to town to exchange with the 
whites for comforts and luxuries." 

The remarkable case of Count Tovar''s slaves, mentioned 
by Baron Humboldt, has already been cited. But, in no 
colony where slavery still exists, has the experiment of 
emancipation been tried on so large a scale as in the island 
of Cuba. " In no part of the world," says Humboldt, 
*' where slavery prevails, is emancipation so frequent. The 
Spanish legislature, far from preventing this, or rendering it 
difficult, like the English and French legislatures, favours 
liberty. The right of every slave to change his iioaster, or 
to set himself free, if he can repay the ]n-icc of the ])ur- 
chasc; the religious feeling which inspires many masters 



66 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

in easy circumstances with the idea of giving liberty, by 
their will, to a certain number of slaves ; the habit of keep- 
ing a multitude of blacks for domestic purposes ; the at- 
tachments which arise from this intercourse with the whites ; 
the facility with which slaves make money who are me- 
chanics, and who pay their masters a certain sum daily, in 
order to work on their own account ; — such are the prin- 
cipal causes from which so many slaves in the towns pass 
from the captive state to that of free-men of colour. . . . The 
condition of free-men of colour is happier at the Havannah, 
than among nations which boast, during ages, of the most 
advanced civilization. Here, those barbarous laws are un- 
known, according to which free-men, incapable of receiving 
the donations of the whites, may be deprived of their li- 
berty, and sold for the profit of the fiscal, if they are con- 
victed of having afforded an asylum to Maroon negroes." * 

With regard to the actual state of things in Cuba, the 
following information is given in the evidence of Vice- 
Adrairal the Hon. Charles Elphinstone Fleeming, before 
the Commons'' Committee. 

" Have you seen a good deal of the people of colour in 
Cuba? — Yes. 

" What did their condition appear to be 1 — They are in good 
condition ; some of the brown people are very rich people ; 
some of the blacks, too, are very wealthy people. 

" What is the condition of the lower class of free people ? — 
All the free people are in very good condition in the island of 
Cuba. 

" Have you ever heard or seen any thing in Cuba which 
would lead you to believe that the free people of colour were 
not industrious ? — No, I never heard in Cuba any complaints of 
their want of industry ; I think they are generally as industrious 
as the Spaniards. 

" Did you ever know or hear of any instance of free persons 
of colour being employed in the cultivation of sugar in Cuba ?— 

* Humboldt's Pers. Nan-. Vol. VII. pp. 127, 8. 



OF rUEK AND SLAVE LABOUR. 67 

Yes, a great many; I have seen white people employed in 
Cuba, the people that came from the Canary islands, in field 
work, and they manage all the indigo. 

" Do you suppose that any of the free persons of colour 
made cane-holes ? — Yes ; I have seen the free people making 
cane-holes, and some of them work the whole estate without 
slaves. 

" Are there instances of small sugar estates working entirely 
without slaves ? — Yes ; they grow the cane, and sell it to per- 
sons who boil it. 

" What is the total number of free persons that work upon 
sugar estates, to your knowledge, in the island of Cuba ? — I had 
no means of ascertaining that, but there was a great number ; 
they hire them when they have not enough. 

" Is there any difficulty in getting them ? — No, I never heard 
of any difficulty. 

" Do you know what the rate of wages is ? — It is very high 
for working on a sugar plantation ; a free person will gain two 
pisettas a day ; that is about eighteen-pence, or more than that ; 
in that country it will be more than half a dollar. 

" Are the wages usually paid in coin ? — In coin generally, but 
they sometimes pay them in goods. 

" When you speak of their selling the canes, do you mean 
that that is the general practice on the part of the persons of 
colour ? — Some free persons manufacture their own sugar, but, 
as the boilers are expensive, they generally sell them to a richer 
person in the neighbourhood. 

" The produce of the raw material they give to a capitalist to 
be manufactured ? — Yes, and I have heard that they sometimes 
get a part of it back manufactured. 

" What may be the extent of any of the estates of the persons 
that sell the canes in that way? — It is difficult to say. 

" Are they like the estates in our own colonies ? — They are 
better land. I knew one man that Iiad thirty fanagas of cane. 
A fanaga corresponds to about an acre and a half 

" Was it wrought by free labour ? — Entirely wrought by free 
labour. 

" Was the process upon that estate exactly the same as upon 
a slave-cultivated sugar estate, cane-hole digging, and all the 
process of culture the same? — Yes ; all except the boiling. 

r2 



68 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

" What is the largest estate you have known cultivated by 
free labour ? — I suj)pose that is the largest I have known. 

" That was about 45 acres ? — Yes, in that one piece ; but he 
had other land besides that. The estates in Cuba are mucli 
more extensive than in Jamaica, and sometimes pieces are let 
off to free negroes. 

" Was that estate entirely cultivated by free labour ? — En- 
tirely ; I was told the slaves had all been sold. 

" Are you aware of the number of free labourers employed 
upon that estate ? — I should suppose there were upwards of 300 
people upon it ; they were all hutted. 

" Were they all receiving about the same rate of wages you 
have mentioned? — Yes ; some received more. 

" Among the Creole slaves in Cuba, does discontent exist in 
the same degree as there exists in Jamaica ? — No ; there is very 
little discontent among the slaves in Cuba, because they have it 
in their power to apply for legal manumission, or, as it is called in 
the English islands, compulsory manumission ; they are all valued, 
and whenever they make up their price, they may free themselves 
if they please, or their children or their wives. They work by 
piece-work ; they are not driven generally, although some of 
the estates in the possession of the English and Americans do 
drive, but I never saw a Spanish estate drive. 

" Are the Committee to understand, then, that freedom is not 
placed beyond the hopes or the means of acquirement of any 
slave in the island of Cuba ? — No : freedom is not beyond the 
hopes of every slave in Cuba ; and they may change their masters 
whenever they please, if they can find another who will give the 
price ; this is frequently done. 

" Are you not of opinion, that having extra time for work, 
which, when performed with diligence, may purchase their free- 
dom, and having always the hope of freedom before them, it is 
natural that they should be more contented with their situation 
than the slaves in Jamaica, who work harder and have no such 
hope? — Yes, entirely ; but I do not speak alone of Cuba, be- 
cause the Carraccas is just in the same situation. I was some 
months in the Carraccas, where the greater part of them are 
free people. 

" Does the task-work prevail on sugar estates in Cuba ? — 
Yes, on the sugar estates likewise, and so it does in the Car- 
raccas. 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR, 69 

" Free labour being considered by many of the Spaniards 
cheaper than slave labour, how do you account for the desire 
that has been evinced by the Spaniards to import so largely into 
Cuba ? — The desire to import Africans is not by the Spaniards ; 
it is chiefly by the adventurers that come to the island, and by 
the expelled peojjle from South America. 

" Are there not continual supplies of newly imported Africans 
brought upon the estates possessed by the Spanish proprietors ? 
— No, I do not think it is general ; I know many proprietors in 
Cuba that will not purchase an African. 

" What becomes of the great number of Africans imported, 
as appears from the different papers, into Cuba? — They are 
employed generally on the new estates, and some old proprie- 
tors purchase them, but rarely. > 

" Do you suj)pose there wovdd be any greater difficulty in 
adopting the system of free labour upon the sugar estates in the 
English islands, than in the Spanish islands ? — Yes, a great deal. 

"Will you explain why? — Because all the English inhabit- 
ants that ever I was acquainted with are against fi-ee labour, 
and consequently they would resist it. 

" Independently of the opinion that may be entertained by 
planters in the British West India colonies, is there in the thing 
itself any greater difficulty in the English West India islands 
than in Cuba ? — I think none. I am of opinion that the West 
Indies could be cultivated by free labour ; and I ground that 
opinion upon my experience of what I have seen in Hayti, in 
the Carraccas, particularly where all are free, and in the islands 
of Trinidad and Cuba, and upon the industry of the free negroes 
in the islands of the Bahamas. 

" What proportion do those whom you know or have under- 
stood to work in the field, bear to tlie mass of the slave popula- 
tion employed infield labour in Cuba? — Upon the sugar estates, 
the proportion of free labour is much less than that of the 
slaves ; but in tlie cultivation of tlic interior, where corn is 
grown and cattle bred, tlie i'ree labour exceeds the slaves. 

" It l)eing a nicely balanced question in Cuba between the 
comparative profit of slave labour and free labour, are you of 
opinion, that if a royal ordinance was to go forth from Spain, 
liberating all the slaves in Cuba, tlie cultivation of sugar would 
cease in that island, and that confusion would ensue ? — No ; I 
have not the least doubt that not the least confusion would ensue. 



70 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

" Are you of opinion that many sugar plantations would be 
thrown out of cultivation ? — Not one in Cuba ; there is no dis- 
like to employ free people in the island of Cuba, but there is in 
all the English islands. 

" Will you state whether the mixed state of emancipation and 
partial emancipation in the Carraccas produced perceptibly any 
confusion or disorder among the black population? — During the 
three different times that I visited the Carraccas, I never saw 
any disorder, and I never heard of any, except such as was occa- 
sioned by political convulsions. 

" Upon general principles, or upon the score of profit? — 
Upon the score of profit ; the Marquis del Toro, a cousin of 
Bolivar, who has immense estates there, and had a great number 
of slaves, worked them all by free labour. 

" You were understood to say, that you knew of your own 
knowledge, that slaves and free blacks worked together upon 
sugar plantations ? — Yes, I have seen it in the Carraccas. 

" And therefore they continue the labour on sugar planta* 
tions freely and voluntarily ? — Yes, freely and voluntarily. 

" Since the emancipation of the slaves under Bolivar's order, 
has the cultivation of sugar in the provinces of the Carraccas 
and Margarita increased or diminished? — It has increased; I 
have every reason to believe so, and I was told so ; I never 
heard it contradicted. I know many estates that had not been 
cultivated previously, have been cultivated as sugar estates of 
late years, in the low part of the country. 

" Can you state at all the number of people employed in the 
sugar estates in the Carraccas ? — No, I cannot ; it is an immense 
country. 

" What is the proportion of slaves there to the free popula- 
tion ? — The free population exceeds the slaves very much. 

" At the time emancipation was declared, what was the pro- 
portion ? — At that time, perhaps, the white and coloured people, 
free, would be about equal to the slaves ; in Cuba, the white 
population is superior, but in the Carraccas, it was about equal. 

" Putting the fears of the planters aside, should you have any 
apprehension about adopting the same system of emancipation 
in the British West Indies, which has been adopted in the Car- 
raccas ? — No ; before the late insurrection in Jamaica, I should 
have had no fear of the success of such a measure. I doubt it 
now, because the slaves must be in some degree inured to blood- 



OF FREE AXD SLAVE LABOUR. ^1 

shed, and revengeful feelings must exist from what has taken 
place ; and therefore I consider it much more dangerous, though 
more necessary." * * * 

" Supposing the slaves to be emancipated generally, do you 
believe they, would be capable of maintaining themselves by 
their own labour ? — Yes, I think they would, certainly ; and, 
judging from what I have seen in Cuba, Curacoa, Bahamas, and 
Trinidad, able to cultivate the land as well as it is now. 

" Did you observe, upon the whole, that they were industrious 
in their habits, or otherwise? — The slaves are not industrious, 
unless when they work for themselves ; but when they work for 
themselves upon the Saturdays that they have, and the Sundays, 
they are very industrious in cultivating their own lands. I have 
had slaves who worked for hire afterwards most industriously. 

" When they work for the benefit of their master under com- 
pulsion, they are not so industrious as when they work for their 
own benefit? — Certainly not ; it has always appeared to me, 
that slaves worked in a gang, and under overseers, did as little 
as they could avoid doing, but by hire, work as much as they 
could do."* 

We have not yet adverted to Hayti, respecting -which so 
mticli misrepresentation has been industriously propagated, 
with a view to evade the otherwise irresistible conclusion 
to be deduced from the social results of emancipation there. 
We shall simply transcribe the following statements from 
the evidence laid before the Commons'' Committee. 

Admiral Fleming. — " At what intervals did you visit Hayti ? 
— I was first at St. Domingo in 1797 ; and the last time I was 
in the "West Indies, I was twice there, in 1828 and 1829. 

" What was the condition of the black population in Hayti, 
as it appeared to you in 1828, when tliey were liberated, con- 
trasted with wliat it was in 1797 ? — In 1797, the country was at 
war ; the negroes were almost all in insurrection, and, there- 
fore, I could not draw any comparison; but, from the year 1828 
to the year 1829, they had been tranquil all the time, and their 
condition ap])eared to be im])roved. 

" What appeared to be tlie condition of tlie black population 

• Commons' Report. Q. 2547— S^fiil ; 2577, H; 2504 ; 2fi()(> ; 2r;i2-14; 
2<J3e;-2G41 ; 2f;47"2(;50; 201i-~li; My^ -I, ; 2711; 2U<1J~244(>. 



72 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

in 1828, compared with the condition of the slave population in 
Jamaica at that time ? which possessed most of the comforts of 
life, as far as you were able to judge? — I think in Hayti they 
possessed more of the comforts of life ; they were better dressed. 
" Did you see much begging in the streets ? — I never saw a 
beggar in Hayti. 

" Did you see any sugar cultivated in Hayti ? — Yes, I saw 
one estate only. 

" Near which town ? — Near the Cape. 

" Was it extensive ? — Yes, it was a very fine estate ; it be- 
longed to a general (General Bourlon I think it was), extremely 
well cultivated and in beautiful order. 

" Did the land appear to you to be as clean and well managed 
as any thing you had seen in Jamaica ? — Yes ; beautifully laid 
out, and with fine roads, and as well managed as any estate I 
saw in the West Indies. 

" Did you inquire of any person who knew the state of the 
interior of Hayti, whether what you saw was a fair specimen of 
the general state of the island, or whether the immediate neigh- 
bovirhood of the Cape was sviperior to the interior of the island? 
—I was told it was inferior, because the land is not so good. 

" Do you mean to say that there are many svigar estates in 
the interior? — No, I believe very few; they export no sugar; 
there is very little sugar made. 

" Do they import any siigar in Hayti ? — Not that I know of; 
I believe they may import. The cultivation of canes is not en- 
couraged in Hayti ; they had no means of making it into sugar, 
. nor any capital to set up the works. 

" Have you ever heard the reason assigned for the decrease 
of the growth of sugar in Hayti, by any person upon whose 
judgment you could rely there ? — Yes. 

" What were the causes stated to you ? — The destruction of 
the works, and the want of capital to establish them again ; and 
the necessity of attending to other more urgent concerns, 
feeding themselves and making clothes ; besides, the Govern- 
ment do not encourage making sugar, to avoid giving offence 
to the sugar colonies. 

" Did you ever hear the unwillingness of the free black po- 
pulation to work at the cultivation of sugar, assigned as a rea- 
son ? — Never ; on the contrary, I was told that they were very 
ready to work if they were paid. 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR, 'J3 

" Did you ever hear the necessary rate of wages of free la- 
bour, as compared with the lower cost of production in the 
maintenance of slaves, assigned as a reason why sugar could 
not be profitably cultivated in Hayti ? — Never ; on the contrary, 
many Europeans settled in St. Domingo have told me, that they 
thought they could make sugar cheaper in Hayti, with free la- 
bour, than with slave labour in our colonies, but the Government 
do not encourage it." (Q. 2738— 2741 ; 2744 — 6; 2779—2786.) 

Mr. Robert Sutherland.* — " Does Hayti afford an example 
of a free black population working for wages ? — I think it does. 

" You were understood to say, that they all possessed land 
of their own, and that they worked upon that land ; and that 
you had understood from the large proprietors, that there was 
great difficulty in their obtaining labourers for hire : if that be 
so, does it not fail to afford an example of free laboxir for hire ? 
— No, it does not ; there are some who have no lands, and who 
are located upon the plantations, of which there are a great 
many. The Agrarian law only extends to the more intelligent 
part of the population. Land was allotted to almost all the old 
soldiers, who were of sufficient intelligence to become propri- 
etors and to cultivate the soil ; and I believe there was an article 
of that very Agrarian law, which stated, that if the land, or so 
much of it, was not cultivated at a certain period, it was forfeited. 

" Are there many persons who work for hire in Hayti? — Yes, 
the whole cultivation is carried on by free labour. 

" Do those persons work with industry and vigour ? — I have 
no reason to think that they do not. The proof that free labour 
in Hayti answers, is this ; that after the French were expelled, 
there was absolutely no sugar-work, there was no mill ; there 
was nothing of that kind which could be put in use, it was so 
destroyed ; and since that period, various plantations have grown 
up in Hayti ; men have gone to the expense of laying out 
twenty, thirty, and forty thousand dollars to build up those 
sugar-works, and there are a vast num})er of phmtations in the 
island ; and it stands to reason, tliat, unless tliose men were 
repaid for their capital, they would not continue that sort of 
work. And there is another thing to be observed, that sugar is 
not the staj)le commodity of Hayti; they only make sulHcient 
for consumption: coflee is the staple connnodity of the island. 

• This gentleman viaitcil Ilayti four times between ICM and 1027. 



74 THE COMPAKATIVE COST 

*' Have you heard complaints generally as to the industry of 
those who were employed in free labour ? — I have heard tlie 
great proprietors frequently complain of the great difficulty of 
obtaining labourers, but those were men who were accustomed 
to the old colonial practice ; their complaint was, not that those 
that did work were inefficient, but they complained of the diffi- 
culty of getting a sufficient number to cviltivate. 

" Have you seen any of the negroes at work on sugar estates ? 
—Yes, on several plantations. " (Q. 2947—2952.) 

We must not omit to notice the satisfactory results of eman- 
cipation in the Cape Colony. In 1826, 7? between two and 
three hundred slaves of all ages and sexes, belonging to pri- 
vate individuals, and one hundred and twenty belonging to 
Government, were manumitted ; the latter in one day. 
About 1500 prize negroes* also, of both sexes, " the majority 
of whom had been for fourteen years made to drink of the 
bitter cup of slavery to the dregs, were admitted to enjoy 
the blessings of liberty ; and experience has shewn that this 
event was attended with advantage to themselves and to 
the community.'"-f- " Many of these people,"" it is remarked 
in a colonial journal, " who had made but little progress in 
the acquisition of industrious habits during their period of 
servitude, have improved rapidly in this respect on obtaining 
their emancipation, and turned out not only more obedient, 
but more profitahle to their employers as servants, 
than they had been to their masters as apprentices. ''''\ 
This fact may well seem to warrant the statements made by 
Mr. Miller, Colonial Aide-de-Camp to Sir Lowry Cole, 
and Acting Clerk to the Council, in his " Considerations 
on the Exact Position of the Slave Question."" " Suppose,"'"' 

* Negroes found on board captured slave ships, and brought to the co- 
lony, to be apprenticed under an act of Parliament for a term not exceeding 
14 years. In some cases, they were detained in bondage iifteen years ; and 
at the expiration of their (so called) apprenticeship, a plan was formed to 
keep their children in slavery, to compensate the masters ! 

-j- " Slavery at the Cape of Good Hope." By the Rev. William Wright, 
M. A., of Trinity College, Dublin, Chaplain at Bathurst, &c., 8vo. 1831.p.C2. 

+ South African Commercial Advertiser. May 10, 1826. 



OF FREE x\ND SLAVE LAItOUR. ^5 

says this gentleman, " that emancipation were declared to- 
morrow, and that Slavery were to cease forthwith, as long as a 
sufficient quantity of free labour can be procured at an expense 
equivalent to that incurred by the slave labour, the master 
will suffer no loss by the change. For wherein consists 
the value of the slave, but in the value of his labovu- ? 
Now, I affirm that free labour is procurable in the colony 
at the lowest possible price ; for, at the moment in which I 
write, there are thousands and tens of thousands of natives 
in the frontiers, who are in a state of absolute starvation, 
and who are coming into the colony in such numbers to 
seek labour, at any wages, that the farmers in those districts 

are obliged to send them back The introduction of free 

labourers, although it would lower the exchangeable value 
of the slave, would not lessen the profits of the master. On 
the contrary, the quantity of labour being increased, there 
would be a corresponding increase in the value and profits 
of the land."* 

There is another class of facts tending to establish the 
reasonable probability that the slaves in our colonies, if eman- 
cipated from the whip, would work for wages ; we refer to 
the good effect with which task-work has been introduced 
into the plantations. We find this enumerated among the 
improvements for which the West Indians take credit to 
themselves ; and since it has become more common, the 
negroes, we are told, are become more healthy and cheerful. 
Upon this point, the folloAving evidence was given in before 
the Comm.ittee of the House of Commons. 

Wm. Taylor, Esq. — " Is it not then the fact, that by means of 
giving them wages, you would get from them the greatest quan- 
tity of work tluit tlicir physical strength was able to perform? — 
Certainly ; I found that l)y giving them task-work, and then by 
paying them for extra work, I got much more work done-, untl 
it was cheerfully done. 

* Cileil by Mr. W'rigiiL. \>. /O. 



76 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

" What is the greatest number you ever employed for hire? — 
The greatest number was in the case of the fence ; tliere was 
first one employed, and then two or three more, and so on. 

" Were there as many as twenty altogether ?— Not twenty, I 
should think. 

" On how many occasions did you ever employ people in this 
way ? — Only in the case of the fence, and in the case of digging 
cane-holes, and in the case of working in the garden. 

" Have you reason to believe that if you had wished to em- 
ploy persons in this way on other occasions, and to a greater 
extent, you could have done so ? — If it was for their pecuniary 
benefit ; if they found that it was the most profitable mode 6f 
employing themselves. 

" Did you ever attempt to hire people to do work in this way 
and fail in the attempt ? — I would say generally, that I found 
them willing to work, in their extra time, for hire. 

" Are you speaking of any other negroes besides those on 
Mr. Wildman's estate ?— No. 

" If it was found so advantageous in this particular instance, 
why was it not more generally adopted on the estate? — Task- 
work is generally preferred. 

" In the case of the cane-hole digging, would it not answer 
for the planter to give the men extra work upon the system you 
have described ? —It is too expensive ; such is the unavoidable 
expense of conducting estates now, that a mixed system of 
slavery and free labour would not do ; they could not maintain 
men at the expense of slavery, and work them half a day as 
slaves, and pay them the other half day as free men. With me 
it was an experiment ; but the task-work was very generally 
vised; and I have heard planters always say, that the negro 
got his work done in a much shorter time, and I have 
often heard overseers say, that they always resorted to task- 
work." (Q. 104—112.)* 

Robert Scott, Esq. — " Were you in the habit of employing any 
of your slaves upon task-work? — Sometimes ; in digging cane- 
holes, for instance, the overseer would give them task-work. 

" Have you found that they performed that task- work with 
greater expedition than they would do the same quantity of 
work at day labour? — Certainly; they generally finished the 

* See also Lords' Report, pp. 586—6 ; 621, 622. 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 77 

task-work by two o'clock in the afternoon, by working at their 
dinner time. 

" To what did they betake themselves after that during the 
rest of the day ? — They often went to their grounds or to their 
gardens. 

" Did it ever happen to you upon any estate, to offer the 
negroes any small compensation for additional labour? — I 
dare say it has, though I cannot call any instance to my recol- 
lection at this moment ; I know that negroes are frequently paid 
for their extra labour. 

" Do not they work willingly then ? — Certainly they do." 
(Q. 5076—8; 5261, 2.) 

The following statements occur in the Evidence before 
the Lords'' Committee. 

John Baillie, Esq. — " Suppose a man to take his task, what 
proportion of time would he be able to finish his time in, he do- 
ing it voluntarily, as compared with the number of hours a slave 
would be employed ? I have seen a negro gain a couple of hours 
in a day by task- work ; that has been an able bodied negro." 

Mr. Edin. Sharp. — " Have you ever worked the negroes 
under your care at task-work ? — Frequently. 

" Have you worked them on cane-hole-digging ? — Cane-hole- 
digging is generally by task-work, where we can get it done ; 
he does his day's work, and is at liberty to go where he pleases 
afterwards. 

" Have you ever done'it in clearing of canes? — That is work 
of that nature that we can scarcely give task-work in it. 

" Have you given any other description of work ? — Various 
other works in the trades ; stone wall-building, and the cooperage. 

" When you have put the slaves to task-work in respect to 
cane-hole-digging, have you not found that they have done the 
work at an early time in the day, so as to be able to get a por- 
tion of the remainder ? — Yes, they have done their task- work 
by two or three o'clock ; then they would work the two hours 
at noon to get that. 

" Do you draw any conclusion from that circumstance, that 
tlic negro, if paid for his work in wages, would be prompted to 
regular and continuous industry? — I think a free man would 
not, under any consideration, labour in the field. 

" What reason can you assign for his performing the task- 



78 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

work so expeditiously as to be enabled to get the remainder of 
the day? — Knowing there is a boon to him for the remainder of 
the day, of course he works harder."* 

Evidence still more decisive, perhaps, is furnished by 
Mr. Telfair, tlie proprietor of the Bel-Ombre estate in the 
Mauritius, a decided opponent of the Anti-Slavery Society. 
In his " Account of the State of Slavery at Mauritius in 
1810, in Refutation of anonymous Charges against that 
Colony,'"'' Mr. Telfair describes the results of an experiment 
"which he was induced to make as a colonial proprietor on his 
estate on that island. " The whole establishment," he says, 
" was under my control ; and the problem I undertook 
experimentally to solve, for the general interest of the popu- 
lation, bond and free, was, that the produce of the estate 
would be augmented, and the state of both these classes 
meliorated, in proportion as the land was cultivated to the 
best advantage by machinery and agricultural implements, 
with the greatest yiumher of working cattle and the smallest 
number of slaves. Thus, then, our chief object was, to 
adapt the most perfect system of European husbandry to 
tropical cultivation ; and, while multiplying our produce, 
by these means to raise the slaves to the physical and moral 
level of English farm servants." 

In proceeding to describe the manner in which this pur- 
pose was followed up, he states, that " The adoption of 
tasks, whenever practicable, augtnented the amoutit of work 
performed, and simplified the duties of the overseer, who 
had only to see that the task was done in a workman- like 
manner. Many of the more handy negroes could perform 
their portion before four o"" clock, and some even before two 
p. m. Such individuals never required correctioji : their 
industry kept them from riotitig and quarrelling. Dis- 
orderly individuals alone, who, from caprice, indulgence in 
strong liquors, or jealousy, would neither work nor suffer 
their companions to work, or who behaved with cruelty to 

* Lords' Eeport, pp. 47; 788. 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 79 

the working cattle, — required, and that but seldom, the in- 

terventio7i of justice on the field.'''' " The only certain 

means," continues Mr Telfair, by which a master can in- 
fluence the conduct of his servants, are punishments and re- 
wards. Experience confirmed my anticipation of the su- 
periority of the latter ; and in this view, every thing we 
could imagine was done to excite the emulation of the 
blacks, particularly by public trials of skill in ploughing, 
reaping, mowing, sowing, &c. And we were satisfied that 
the greatest ardour and energy were produced by the system 
of remuneration. A man actuated by the hope of reward, 
labours cheerfully, and fields that he possesses powers of 
which he was not before aware.'''' * 

In the "Notes extracted from the Bel-Ombre Instructions 
Book, I8I7," given in the Appendix to Mr. Telfair's vo- 
lume, we find the following propositions laid down by this 
gentleman. " It is easy to perceive, that the fear of chas- 
tisement, hitherto considered almost the only motive of a 
l)lack\s exertion, is little calculated to call forth all the in- 
dustry he is capable of exerting. Fear engages him to con- 
ceal, rather than to shew the extent of his corporal powers ; 
and all the labour he can elude, is by him considered posi- 
tive gain Slavery has existed in all countries. It still 

exists in many European nations ; but it is gradually super- 
seded by freedom in the progress of civilization ; because 
hired work has been found more profitable to the em- 
])loyer, than the labour of slaves.'''' -f Another beneficial 
distinction has arisen from the progress of modern observa- 
tions and activity. What was once universally prevalent, 
tu^. labour by the day, as far as the nature of the employ- 

* Telfair's State of Slavery, &c. pp. 25, 29, :J0. 

■f The following additional proof of this fact, is furnished hy IMr. Miller, 
in his work ahove referred to. " In the Island of Eourhon, the pro])rietors 
of sugar-estates, finding the want of lahonr since the abolition of the slave- 
trade, have had recourse to a scheme for procuring free labour, and that, 
too, at considerable expense. An agent is employed on the coast of I^Jalabar, 



80 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

ment admits, is now done by task-work. Even in agriculture, 
(in which, in many respects, task-work is generally accom- 
panied with difficulty,) every favourable occasion is to be 
taken for introducing task -work, which is, when applicable, 
productive of benefit to the planter and comfort to the la- 
bourer, who executes his share with alacrity and pleasure.""* 
Task-work, Mr. Hodgson found to be almost universal in 
the Atlantic States of America, where tobacco, cotton, and 
rice are the staple articles of production ; but he " never 
heard of an instance of it in the sugar-plantations of Loui- 
siana, where great profits render attention to economy less 
necessary.'''' -f " The keen-sighted spirit of a necessary 
avarice," we are told, " has taught the planter of Dutch 
Guiana to view the general introduction of task-work as the 
most profitable manner of working his slaves.""! We will 
not stop to inquire why the Jamaica planter has not more 
generally adopted it. But, if even the voluntary exertion 
of a slave is found thus to exceed the utmost sum of invo- 
luntary labour that can be extorted from him in the same 
time by means of the driving system, how much more effi- 
cient must be the voluntary labour of a free man ! Could a 
stronger proof be given of the paralyzing influence of slavery 
on human exertion, than the beneficial results that have fol- 
lowed this slight modification of the system, by which the 
will of the labourer is found to perform in ten hours, what 

to advertise for persons, natives of tliat country, wlio may be willing to go 
over to Bourbon, under legal contract for seven years, with the monthly 
wages (in most cases) of four piastres (about seventeen shillings), &c. And, 
besides this, the person for whom they are thus hired, pays their passage 
over, and binds himself to send them back to their own country, should they 
wish it, at the expiration of the term prescribed by the contract. And yet, with 
all this expense, these persons are greedily sought for ; and when I was. 
there, a few months ago, there were about 7,000 of them in the island." 

* Telfair's State of Slavery, &c. pp. 95, 97- 

•)■ Letter to Say, p. 22. 

J lb. (cited from Bi'ougham) p. 21. In Cuba also, piece work is generally 
adopted by the Spanish planters. See V.-Ad. Fleming's Evid. cited above. 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 81 

the whip could not accomplish in twelve? If the mere 
prospect of getting through his task sooner, is thus sufficient 
to stimulate the physical powers of the slave to a greater 
exertion than he would otherwise be capable of putting forth, 
(for there is a strength imparted by such a stimulant,) what 
reason can we have to suppose that the hope of remuneration 
would be less effective in stimulating the free labourer ? If 
task-work thus increases the productiveness of slave labour, 
because it relaxes the manacles which fetter the will and 
energies of the labourer, how much more would the volun- 
tary labour of the free-man accomplish, under the higher sti- 
mulation of self-interest, and with the prospect of personal 
gain ! 

The system of task- work, moreover, may be made to fur- 
nish, under the system of free labour, not only a stimulus to 
the labourer, but a security to the employer, to whom it gives 
a certain hold upon the party contracting to perform it. If 
that voluntary contract is not fulfilled, a substantial ground 
of reasonable complaint is afforded, of which the law would 
take cognizance. The labourer might justly be punished in 
such case by suitable penalties. 

And this leads us to the last point in the inquiry : name- 
ly, whether it would not be practicable and easy to accom- 
pany the emancipation of the slave population with such ef- 
ficient restrictions as should obviate any inconvenience that 
might otherwise attend so sudden a change in their condi- 
tion. 

The problematical evils to be provided against would 
seem to be: 1. Their running loose into a state of general 
vagabondage, or taking themselves off into the interior. 
2. Their refusing to work at all in the plantations for wages. 
Or, 3. Their not labouring steadily and perseveringly, so as 
to furnish the requisite amount of labour within a given 
time which the wants of the cultivator may demand. 

1. Against the first of these evils, provision might ob- 



82 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

viously be made by a law of settlement, attaching tlie negro 
population to the soil, and by visiting with penal severities 
those who should be convicted of a vagabond life. Provided 
that the white and the black vagabond were subjected to the 
same law, and punishable only by the magistrate, there 
would be no injustice in such enactments, should they be 
deemed expedient. Against their expediency, however, it 
may be objected, that a regulation attaching the emanci- 
pated slaves to the soil, would, on the one hand, disturb the 
balance of free labour, and fetter the employer, who might 
be able to procure more efficient labourers at lower wages ; 
while, on the other hand, the feeling of compulsory residence 
would tend to weaken the natural bond of attachment to 
home, which in the negro is remarkably strong, and to en- 
gender a spirit of discontent. To ensure the continued re- 
sidence of the negroes on their present habitations, there 
now exists the strength of habit and local attachment on their 
part; besides which, so long as it should be the interest of the 
proprietor to detain them there, he would have a strong hold 
upon them as tenants. Mr. Scott, of Trelawney, a Jamaica 
Proprietor, on being "asked by the Commons'* Committee, 
"Arenotthe slaves very much attached to their present home- 
steads ? " replies : " Yes, I believe they are generally." 

" Do you not think that, in case of emancipation, they would be 
ready to pay a certain rent to be allowed to remain ? — A great 
many of them would ; and I think a great many of them would 
go to the towns. 

" Do not you think that if they were industrious they would 
be able to pay that rent ? — If they were industrious, certainly. 

*' You have said that they would be disposed to cultivate pro- 
visions in preference to working upon sugar-plantations ? — I 
think it very likely, if they had good provision-grounds to work 
on, and as long as they could find a market. 

" Must not there be a Umit to the quantity of provisions 
raised ? — Certainly- 

" Wovild not the market rate of price for those provisions, as 
they became larger in quantity, decrease ? — Certainly it would 5 



OF FllEE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 83 

and when they overstocked the market, they would very likely 
quit the cultivation of provisions, and they would work awhile 
for the sugar-planter or cofFee-planter. 

" You are aware of the extreme reluctance which the negroes 
feel to remove from their village which has been built for them ? 
— They have a most unaccountable aversion to it. I recollect an 
instance upon my own estate, where I thought it necessary to 
remove them from an unhealthy to a healthy situation, and I 
had a great deal of trouble about it ; I not only built new houses 
and better houses than they had before, but I had great difficulty 
in getting them to go into them." (Q. 5270 — 4 ; 5099.) 

Such being the case, the fear of losing a comfortable ha- 
bitation, of being driven from their provision-grounds, which 
they have learned to value as property, as well as the feel- 
ing of local attachment, must act as a powerful restraint upon 
migration. If the negro removes, he must remove either to 
land belonging to the Crown or to the estates of individuals. 
As to the former, it might be advisable that the Crown 
should not, for the present, allow any of the land in its pos- 
session to be inhabited or brought into cultivation, but only 
to be let or sold at a price or rent inferior to that which can 
be obtained for the land of a similar quality in the hands of 
private proprietors. The door to migration and vagrancy 
would thus be blocked up ; nor would this, we apprehend, 
be found a matter of serious difficulty, either in Jamaice or 
in the smaller islands. The numbers of those negroes who, 
in a state of emancipation, would be disposed to quit their 
homes to seek a hard subsistence in the uncultivated parts, 
away from their old connexions, would, it may safely be pre- 
sumed, not be large ; certainly not so large but that a very 
small police establishment would be amply sufficient to keep 
them in control.* 

• Tlie History of the Maroons, neglected and abandoned as they have 
been, furnishes a strong corroboration of this position. Mr. Scott was 
asked, in liis examination liefore the Commons' Committou, whetlier it had 
been found necessary to establish any strong police to keej) them in order. 
His answer is : " No, they are not so numerous ; there is a sui)erintendent 

,'. 9 



84 THE COMPAKATIVE COST 

No great temptation to remove would be afforded by tlie 
facility of procuring habitations on lands at present owned by 
individual proprietors, the greater proportion of such lands 
being in a state of cultivation, and consequently yielding a 
rent. The chief inducement would be to remove to the 
towns ; where, if they could obtain a livelihood by their own 
industry, they would cease to be vagrants. If they could 
not get their bread there, they would become obnoxious to 
the police laws. Upon the whole, the numbers who would 
become vagrant, would in all probability not be much greater 
than become runaways under the present system. But to 
obviate any possible danger, a temporary regulation might 
be adopted, agreeably to the suggestion of Mr. Loving, fix- 
ing the present population upon the plantations, till the re- 
sult of the experiment should be ascertained. 

2. In respect to the second of the apprehended evils, their 
refusing to work upon the plantations, the remarks of this 
last-named witness, although they may be considered as 
the statement of an individual opinion, rather than evidence 
of fact, are highly deserving of attention. 

" Are you able to form an opinion as to the relish the negroes 
have for the comforts and conveniences of life, and of their will- 
ingness to labour hard in order to obtain them ? — There is no 
doubt whatever, and this I can say, from my own personal know- 
ledge, that the slaves are very great lovers of those little com- 
forts of life which we all seek after, let our condition be ever so 
poor ; hence arises the very great industry they use in the in- 
termediate time between the drawing them off from the labour, 
and the resumption of it, that is, the period allowed them' for 
their breakfast and dinner. 

always at the town, who settles all their disputes, and they have their own 
courts and regulations, which they make for themselves." " Are there not 
several Maroon towns?" " Yes." Generally speaking, this witness ad- 
mitted, they are quiet and well-behaved persons. They maintain themselves 
entirely by their own labour, and the population is on the increase. See 
Q, 5277—5270, and 236, 



OF FREE AXD SLAVE I.AKOUR. 85 

" Is not that labour necessary, in order to secure to themselves 
and their families the necessaries of life? — Unquestionably, and 
even after he has done his master's work, at night, he will set 
out and travel perhaps six miles, with some little commodity to 
dispose of, in order to administer to his little comforts. 

" Do you conceive that, except for a very high rate of wages, 
a free negro woirld consent to dig cane-holes, when by lighter 
work, and at much lower wages, he might obtain the necessaries 
of life ? — I have thought of that subject more than once, and 
have always been of opinion, and am still of opinion, that one- 
third of the slaves, if they were emancipated to-morrow, would 
not return to field labour, unless some law was passed for the 
purpose of confining those persons to those pursuits in life to 
which they have been brought upi That third who would not 
labour in that way, I conceive, would be persons that have been 
disgusted with the life they have lived hitherto, and that indeed 
they wish to get rid of it, because they deem it a punishment. 
But where could they get bread ? they would come into the 
towns ; they could not get it there ; they must become vagrants, 
and disease, or the strong arm of the law, would sweep off the 
whole of that third ; and, consequently, whenever I have thought 
of the abolition of slavery, I have always put it down in my 
mind, that, unless some regulations were made to confine the 
present agricidtural labourers to that mode of life to which they 
had been brought up, one-third of them would abandon it, while, 
on the other hand, the remaining two-thirds, I do believe, would 
attach themselves strictly to the soil ; because it is one of the 
properties of a creole negro to be fond of the place of his birth ; 
he calls it (I have heard them call it so myself) his ' born 
ground ; ' in fact, the associations of his cliildhood are all laid 
there ; he has his little fruit-trees and other things about his 
little hut, and he has his family. If he removes from the«ce, 
where can he get a house ? Nowhere. If he comes into the 
towns, he must purchase every thing he uses ; he cannot pick up 
a little fire-wood as he does in the country; he cannot pick any 
of those esculents which may be found wild in some parts, and 
make himself a dish of any thing ; he must put his hands into 
his pocket to procure even the most trifling necessaries of life ; 
the majority of them are well aware of this, and, if they were 
made free, they would be desirous to remain where they are ; 



bb THE COMPARATIVE COST 

and nothing but a hatred of a white master would, in my opinion, 
induce them to leave the identical properties upon which they 
are now. 

" When you say that you think a portion of them would work 
upon the plantations where they have been accustomed to live, 
do you mean that they wovdd work at sugar-planting, or what ? ' 
— They would be compelled to work at that occupation to which 
they had been brought up, otherwise they must starve." 

(Q. 1961, 2, 6, 9.) 

The proportion who would be unwilling to persevere in 
field labour, would Vciry of course, in different islands, and on 
different estates ; and vary in proportion to the humane or 
cruel treatment they have been subjected to. When this 
Witness expresses his conviction, that " one third, from 
hard treatment and cruel usage, and other causes, have so 
completely turned their mind against agricultural pursuits, 
that, in the event of emancipation, they would put down 
the hoe, expecting that they would be able to get labour 
of a lighter description elsewhere ; *" — he must be considered 
as speaking the language of conjecture as to the proportion 
who would be disposed so to act, but of experience as to the 
cause of their disinclination to field labour; a cause, let it 
be remembered, which reflects no discredit upon the ne- 
groes, as implying any deficiency of industry. And if 
confined to the plantations, in point of residence, they would 
be compelled to subsist by their accustomed labour. 

In isolated cases of manumission, it is natural, for rea- 
sons already adverted to, that the enfranchised labourer 
should pass at once from the field to some domestic or han- 
dicraft employment. Were this practice widely extended, it 
might immediately subtract from the required cultivation of 
the soil. The much-respected Archdeacon of Barbados, 
Mr. Eliot, has noticed this objection to manumission, in his 
recently published Lectures on Christianity and Slavery, 

" I must allow," he says, " that agricultural labour is in 



OF FREE AND SLAVE LABOUR. 87 

great disrepute in the West Indies. It is not so in other coun- 
tries, for we often find even the well educated and the affluent 
delighting in the cultivation of a garden or in the ruder employ- 
ments of a farm. In the West Indies, field labour is always 
associated with the whip and the driver, and other tokens of 
personal degradation ; we therefore cannot wonder that it is 
generally shunned. 

" The first step towards the removal of the existing dislike to 
this species of employment is, to engage the great mass of our 
population in a kind of voluntary field labour, of which the 
profits may to a certain extent perceptibly accrue to themselves. 
To work spontaneously, and for our own immediate benefit, is 

the distinctive character of freedom Would they be likely, 

after having earned so many and great advantages by field la- 
bour, to regard it with dissatisfaction, and to consider them- 
selves degraded by following their former occupation? Would 
they not rather, if the permission were allowed them, continue 
to work for their masters as tenants on the estate, receiving 
either wages in money for their labour, or a portion of the pro- 
duce of the land ! / believe the present condition of the sugar- 
plantations in those States of South America which have granted 
entire freedom to their slaves, will furnish a satisfactory answer 
to these questions.'''* 

3. But still, it may be apprehended, that the negroes, 
though restricted from vagrancy, and compelled to labour 
on the plantations for the means of subsistence, or, as a 
condition of retaining their huts and provision-grounds, 
could not be induced to labour with sufficient diligence and 
steadiness to answer the purpose of the planter. This ap- 
prehension, however, originates entirely in an utterly erro- 
neous estimate of the negro character. It is supposed that 
he is a being too degraded to be acted upon by those stimu- 
lants to exertion which are elsewhere found of sufficient 
force to overcome the natural love of ease. In reference 
to this point, the examination of Mr. Scott, of Trelawney, 
is most instructive. This gentleman, while exhibiting all 

• Eliot on Christianity and Slavery, pp. 229, 2.30. 



88 THE COMPAUATIVE COST 

the prejudices of a slave-proprietor, so as to be led to ha- 
zard the monstrous opinion, that " a man is more industrious 
in a state of slavery, than when he is in a state of freedom,"" 
is nevertheless compelled to concede, though with obvious re- 
luctance, almost every thing that a friend to emancipation 
could desire, with regard to the disposition of the negroes to 
labour, not merely for necessaries, but for the comforts and 
even luxuries of life. . 

" Is not the motive of maintaining himself, and acquiring the 
comforts of life, sufficient to stimulate persons to labour ? — Yes; 
but the great body of them would be content with so little, that 
I do not think it would stimulate them at all. 

" Are they contented with so little now ? — Many of them 
are. 

" Do not a considerable portion of them work to acquire ar- 
ticles of luxury? — Certainly they do; there is no doubt that 
there are a number of negroes who are wealthy, and there will 
be found among them more money than among an equal num- 
ber of the peasantry in this country. 

"Is there not a considerable number of such negroes? — 
Yes. 

" And the money they have so acquired has been the produce 
of their own industry? — Yes. 

" Why should they not do the same when tliey become free? 
— Those people would do the same, but they are a small pro- 
portion of the whole. 

" The Committee have been informed, that a very large pro- 
portion of the field negroes possess considerable comforts and 
luxuries beyond the mere necessaries of life? — So they do, they 
have plenty of food, and so on. 

" Do not they set a high value upon clothing of a different 
description which their masters give them ?• — Yes, they buy a 
good deal of clothing themselves. 

" Are they not very fond of finery ? — Yes, many are. 

" Then if, notwithstanding they are compelled to work so 
many hours for their master, they will yet work in their extra 
time to get those articles of luxury, why should not they 
do the same if they are emancipated? — A great number of them 
would, I have no doubt, but not generally. 



OF I'KEE AKD SLAVE LABOUK. 89 

" Is not their present motive the acquisition by their labour 
of things deemed beneficial, and would not that motive exist 
even more strongly if they were capable of dedicating their 
whole time to the acquisition of that which they deem valuable ? 
— Yes, with a certain proportion of them ; but I should say the 
smaller proportion. 

" Supposing that the greater proportion were to shew them- 
selves to be industrious, would not the inevitable consequence 
of that industry be, an increjised demand for all those articles 
which are now consumed by the negroes as articles of luxury? 
— I think a great proportion of the negroes would be contented 
with very little, and which little they could get with very easy 
labour. 

" Are they contented with that little now ? — A great many of 
them are. 

" Do not a large proportion of them try to get something be- 
yond what the master allows them ? — I do not think it is likely 
that a large proportion of them would do more work than was 
necessary to afford them the usual comforts of life. 

" Do you think that the desire for fine clothing would end 
with emancipation ? — No, I do not. 

" If a man has a desire for the luxuries of life, is it not con- 
sistent with your experience that that desire goes on increasing? 
— It is human nature, certainly. 

" Did you ever know a man say, when he had got 100/., that 
he had got enough, or would he not rather try to get a little 
more ? — Certainly. 

" Would not the negroes act upon that principle? — Many 
would, no doubt, but some would not. 

" Are not the negroes possessed of the same feelings, ge- 
nerally speaking, in that respect, as white persons? — I suppose 
they are ; they are human creatures, and according to their in- 
telligence, they are influenced in the same way. 

" Moved by fear, and excited by reward? — Of course." * 

This same Witness declares, that, even as to digging the 
cane-holes, the work in itself is not half so hard as digging 
ditches in this country. Upon his estate, " the cane-hole 

* Commons' Kepoit, Q. 5309 -5388. 



90 THE COMPARATIVE COST 

diggers are all volunteersy " When they are upon that 
work, they have plenty of punch, and they take a sort of 
pride in being considered able for that description of 
work,'''' which is not unfrequently task-work. Now if we 
may place any reliance upon these statements, it is obvious, 
that there can be little ground to fear that the same induce- 
ments would fail to secure the requisite number of " volun- 
teers " among the enfranchised slaves, who would probably 
be not less subject to pride, nor less fond of money, 
finery, or punch. 

There are, however, motives of a higher order, of which 
the negroes have shewn themselves not unsusceptible ; mo- 
tives to steady industry, sobriety, and fidelity to their em- 
ployers, which are supplied by the principles of Christianity, 
when brought to bear upon the character. That the negroes 
who have been brought under the influence of religious 
training, may be depended upon as industrious labourers as 
well as faithful and grateful servants, the history of the re- 
cent insurrection in Jamaica fully establishes. Many of 
the estates were saved from devastation entirely by the ex- 
ertions of the slaves themselves, acting under the influence 
of the instructions received from their despised and perse- 
cuted teachers. It must not be concealed, that the safety 
and beneficial results of any plan of emancipation, would 
very greatly depend upon the facilities that should be af- 
forded to the self-denying and persevering labours of the 
Missionaries, who exert so powerful an influence over the 
slave population. 

Such a plan, however, to be either safe or effective, must 
be of a decisive character. It must not attempt to combine 
the two opposite and incompatible systems of free and slave 
labour. It must not superadd the cost of free labour to the 
waste and burden of slavery.* It must not destroy coercion, 

* Tn a valuable statistical account of the Spanish Colony of Porto Rico, 
with the perusal of which we have been favoured, it is stated, that, for 



OF FREE AXD SLAVE LABOUR. 91 

^by a plan which supplies no motives for labour ; which pre- 
cludes alike the stimulus of competition, the sense of gra- 
titude, or the immediate prospect of advantage. It must 
not detain upon the plantations that redundant portion of 
labour which might be altogether economized by a better 
system. It must not continue to hang a dead weight upon 
the elastic springs of human industry, while the machinery is 
yet expected to work without embarrassment. The substitution 
of free labour for bond labour of every description can alone 
indemnify the planter for the loss of his living capital, and 
redeem him from the effect of the standing economical 
blunder in which he has so long and so fatally persisted. 
Slavery must be abolished. Its total abolition will carry 
compensation with it. Any thing short of entire and im- 
mediate emancipation will fail of its object ; will be ruinous 
to the planter, unjust to the slave, unsafe to the colonies, 
and, in a word, not merely impolitic, but impracticable. 

about 1*. sterling per day, a free labourer there will work in the field from 
sun-rise to sunset, and, on a moderate calculation, will perform more work 
during that time, than two slaves. Now as not more than two slaves out 
of three on a sugar estate can be reckoned upon as able-bodied, efficient 
labourers, one free labourer su'^ported by wages, would do the Avork of at 
least three slaves under the present system. Mr. Wildman, an experienced 
planter, calculates, that the cost of his slaves, converted into money, taking 
aged and young and the females into the account, averages bl. a head per 
annum. Suppose the planter relieved from the burden of redundant labour, 
instead of 100 slaves, old and young, sick and well, at an annual cost of bl. 
per head, he would require, perhaps, 30 labourers at 1.5/. or 16/. a head. Or 
suppose a higher rate of wages, to meet this cost of free labour, in part, he 
would derive a rent from letting to the enfranchised negroes their pi-ovision- 
grounds. 



fi. Wooitfall, I'rlntcr, Angel Court, Skinner Street, London. 



