REPORT 



OP THE 



HOLDEN SLATE CASE. 



■ ~W ^^V^^'^^^^'^^^^»< 



REPORT 



OF THE 



HOLDEN SLAVE CASE, 



TRIED AT THE 



JANUARY TERM OF THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS, 
FOR THE COUNTY OF WORCESTER, A. D. 1839. 



^ubttsfcelr b$ tfce 
SSoariJ of Bfmtors of tfje JftolUen SixitU&lubevs SocUtv. 



WORCESTER: 

PRINTED BY COLTON & HOWLAND. 
1839. 



re*- 75**6 ^ * 



EPORT. 



The case of Commonwealth vs. Samuel Stratton, 
Samuel Foster, James E. Cheney, and Farnum White, 
Jun., who were charged in the indictment with a conspi- 
racy to defraud Olivia Eames of Holden, of the voluntary 
services of her servant girl, named Anne, without her 
consent, — came on in the Court of Common Pleas, in this 
town, (Worcester) on Tuesday, January 29th, 1839, 
Judge Strong presiding. Pliny Merrick, Esq., District 
Attorney, conducted the prosecution ; and Charles Al- 
len, Esq., appeared for the defendants. 

Mr. Merrick, in opening the case, stated that Mrs. 
Eames, the party aggrieved, was a native of Worcester 
County — that she was married to Mr. Eames, also a na- 
tive of this County, who a few years since removed with 
her to New Orleans. There he acquired some property, 
and, among other articles, came in possession of a num- 
ber of slaves. In 1S37, he died; after which, Mrs. 
Eames sold her property, excepting the girl Anne, then 
12 or 13 years of age. She was retained as a house ser- 
vant and nurse ; and accompanied Mrs. Eames in that 
capacity, on a visit to Mrs. Eames's friends in Grafton and 
Holden, in Massachusetts. 

Of course, as soon as she came into this State, she was 
as free as any native born citizen of this State, and had 
the right to remain with or leave her mistress, as she 
saw fit. The highest tribunal has decided, that, if a per- 
son come here on business or pleasure, and bring a slave, 
the slave becomes fiee. 

In the session of 1837, an important Act was passed by 
the Legislature of this State.* By that act any person 
is entitled to the Writ, unless indicted for some offence. 
He may go to ihe Clerk and demand it. No power of 



- See said Act at the end of this Report. 



Attorney is to be required and no express form is neces- 
sary. Any person for and in behalf of the plaintiff may 
sue out this writ. 

If Mrs. Eames did imprison her, she might be brought 
into Court, and she might apply to the Court for security. 
But the allegation, in the indictment, is, first, that Anne 
was not restrained of her liberty at all. Anne was there 
voluntarily. She did not suppose that her liberty was in- 
fringed. Yet the defendants sued out the writ, while 
there was no duress. It is alleged that Anne had no 
knowledge of the writ. This is an offence, and it is the 
offence charged in the indictment. No persons, claiming 
to be the friends of Anne, had a right to sue out this writ, 
without her consent. Still, we must be careful not to in- 
fringe on the rights of minors. Few, if any, children of 
those who are educated, know any thing of the writ of 
personal replevin, much less, one brought up in bondage. 
If Anne, in any way intimated a desire, directly or indi- 
rectly, that aid in some form should be granted, the de- 
fendants are not only excused but justified. If it was 
done without her knowledge or consent, the defendants 
are liable, Anne not being in bondage. Undoubtedly, the 
defendants understood and believed that it was the pur- 
pose of Mrs. Eames to carry Anne back to Louisiana, 
where she would be in bondage. The defendants thought 
this was wicked, and the dictates of humanity required 
that they should interfere. But the motive maybe good, 
and yet the laws must not be violated from such motives. 
Some think the business of distillation is pernicious. 
Now, suppose a philanthropist should think that a labor- 
er in the distiller's employ was endangering his health 
and his soul, and should sue out this writ, for the pur- 
pose of removing the laborer from the service of the dis- 
tiller. The motive would be good, but the act would be 
a violation of the law. So, if a slave should be brought 
here, and prefer to go back into slavery, we have no 
right to prevent it. It was so with Anne. She had a 
right to return and be a slave. The offence charged is the 
conspiracy. No subsequent ratificatioifby Anne could jus- 
tify the act of the defendants. If the defendants did de- 
sign to take Anne and educate and christianize her, if she 
did not desire it, though she afterwards ratified it and 
blessed God for their efforts, still the defendants would 
not be justified. Instances have occurred in this Common- 
wealth, where individuals having had their freedom here, and 



INTRODUCTION. 



In the present state of our country, every fact, which 
has a direct or even indirect and remote bearing on the 
momentous subject of American Slavery, is of some im- 
portance. Few, if any of our Northern citizens profess 
to hold slavery in any other estimation than the pro- 
foundest abhorrence ; and yet, it is undeniable that very 
many either tolerate its existence in silence, or exert 
but a very inadequate influence for its removal. 

Abstract Slavery every one abhors ; but of slavery, as 
it exists, so little is even yet known that most seem to 
regard it as mainly a nominal evil, and, therefore, expe- 
rience very little sympathy with those who are called 
slaves. To dissipate this darkness and overcome this 
apathy, the enlightened and active friends of the slave 
ought to stand ready to seize upon, and skilfully use, such 
facts as are evolved by the providence of God, adapted 
to illustrate the necessary operation of the inhuman 
system. 

The following Report exhibits several facts of this class, 
and we simply allude to them in this brief introduction, 
in order to turn the reader's attention to them as he ex- 
amines the testimony in the case. The facts to which 
particular allusion is made are the following. 

The claimant of " the girl Anne " is a native of Worces- 
ter County, and so was her husband, who, on going to 
reside at the South, lost so much of his New England 
abhorrence of slavery as himself to become a slave-hold- 
er. The same is true of Mrs. Eames. We are not to as- 
cribe this lamentable and forbidding fact to any peculiar 
cruelty of disposition in these persons, or to any stronger 
love of money than is common among us. It must be as- 
cribed to the natural operation of the system of slavery, as 
it exists interwoven with all the domestic and social rela- 
tions of the community among whom these persons went 
to reside. 



There are, also, subordinate facts, which are to be ac- 
counted for in the same way ; as, for example, the appar- 
ent unconcern of Mrs. Eames touching- the health of the 
girl, and her being- overtasked ; the severity with which 
punishment for trivial faults, called "crimes," was inflict- 
ed ; and the entire neglect of the literary and religious 
education of Anne, during her stav in Holden. 

These facts serve to show how important it is that the 
youth of New England receive early and full instruction 
in the true nature of the system of slavery ; and how in- 
timately connected are such citizens of the North as have 
relatives at the South, with the evils of the system ; and 
how liable are the Northern citizens to regard Slavery 
with moderated abhorrence and even with favor. It is 
well known that numerous persons in New England, 
among whom are ministers and other professors of the 
benign religion of Jesus Christ, are, at this moment, so 
connected with the South ; and that these persons al- 
most uniformly stand aloof from all interference with 
this foulest of moral evils with which the land is pollut- 
ed, or even strenuously oppose, as " fanatical and incen- 
diary and mad," every effort made to awaken the people 
to a consideration of the subject. It was under the con- 
viction that the facts of the present case may contribute 
to undeceive our citizens on some important topics be- 
longing to the great subject of slavery, that the publish- 
ers were prompted to publish the following Report. 

And here it may be important to remark, that the Re- 
port may be relied on as correct, since it has been com- 
piled from minutes taken at the time by a reporter and 
those of the Hon. Charles Allen, Counsel for the defend- 
ants. Mr. Allen has, by request, furnished the publish- 
ers with a succinct statement of the points in evidence 
which would have been more fully established, if the 
trial had not been arrested by the District Attorney, when 
only two of twelve or fourteen witnesses on the defence 
had given their testimony. 

The law of personal replevin, being new, and this, as is 

believed, being the first trial under it, the present Report 

is deemed of the more importance to the community. 

Neither should it be supposed by any that this law is 

limited to the removal of slaves or colored persons from 

duress. Its powers and applicability extend to every 

class of the people. 

COMPILER. 



having been treated kindly, have voluntarily gone back into sla- 
very. 

We should proceed in this trial as we do in other tri- 
als, whatever are our sentiments on the subject of sla- 
very. I hope no prosecutor will be found who will 
abridge the right of personal liberty. If these individuals 
were actuated by philanthropic motives, these things 
will be considered by the Court. I enter on my duties 
with feelings neither elevated nor depressed. 

Mr. Merrick exhibited the Writ above-named, dated 
Sept. 7, 1838, and a bond signed by S. Stratton, S. Fos- 
ter, and James E. Cheney, and witnessed by Farnum 
White, Jun. 

He then called upon Charles Allen, Esq., who testi- 
fied, that Samuel Stratton and Elnathan Davis applied 
for a writ of personal replevin two or three days before 
date of the writ. They said that Mrs. Eames had in her 
custody a Slave, brought from the South, whom she in- 
tended to carry back and sell — they did not like to take 
the girl by force from Mrs. Eames, but wished to do it in 
a legal way. He understood from them that the 
girl desired her liberty. He told them of the legal rem- 
edy — had several interviews with them — the writ was 
made out under his direction, and the bond was written 
by him, but not executed at his office. Mr. Foster called 
to see about signing the bond as surety. 

Mrs. Olivia Eames being sworn, testified, that she 
spent the summer of 1838 in Holden and Grafton. Her 
mother is Mrs. Betsy Sherman of Holden. She, (Mrs. 
E.) came to New York in 1837, and to Holden in May, 
1838. Her husband was Lowell Eames, formerly of Up- 
ton. He went to New Orleans in 1835, and died there in 
1837. Anne was in her employment as her slave, and all 
the time, since she left NewOrleans, she never knew her 
to express a wish to leave her, in any instance. Anne 
often expressed a toish to return to New Orleans. I proposed 
to leave my babe at the North. Anne wanted to go back — 
was 14 years old then. I was in Holden at my father's 
house. Anne's employment was to take care of my child, 
and to go of errands ; went to the neighbors freely, some- 
times went with the babe. I was absent from home occa- 
sionally ; don't keep house ; none of the family were at 
home but my mother, and a brother 10 years old, and a 
brother 7 years old. Mr. Flagg lived in the house at 
that time. Mrs. Flagg was at home. I saw Stratton, 



8 

Foster, Cheney, White, and Hinds at Judah Wright's 
first. When F. White passed the house, the girl was in 
the garden picking apples. Jim Cheney came to the 
house and went to go where the girl had been, but she 
had come to the house. I went out to see what they 
were looking after — did not think it was the black girl. 
Cheney came to the door and asked for mother — I 
asked them to sit down — Hinds said that he understood 
that I had a colored girl in my possession — I said I had — 
he said that he had come to take her away. I told him I 
could'nt help it, he couldn't have her. He said he had 
authority to take her, and read a paper. I told him I 
didn't know any thing about it — didn't care who author- 
ized him — he had no right to take her. He asked to see 
her. I told him she was in the back room — went to call 
her. He followed. I went for her, but she wasn't 
there. I went up chamber — Anne was out back with my 
child. Hinds and Jim Cheney were attending to their 
business the best way they could. I called her in, told 
her, Mr. Hinds wanted to speak to her — Hinds asked her 
age, she did'nt know — he asked me, but didn't find out — 
he said to Anne, will you go with me r She said, no. 
Mr. Hinds patted her on her head — told her he would not 
hurt her — he would take her to Worcester — Worcester 
is a beautiful place. I told him if he took Anne he must 
take me and the child too. He didn't seem inclined to 
take us. Cheney went out and came back with Stratton 
and Foster. You have been out for more help, I said ; 
if you get more help you will not frighten me. Anne 
went into the bed-room ; Hinds went in after her, and 
Jim Cheney next. Anne began to cry — Hinds told her 
not to be frightened, and like of that — coaxi'ng her. 
Hinds told me to take the child. I wouldn't take it, and 
mother wouldn't. Then Mrs. Flagg took it, so he got 
rid of it. He asked for pen and ink — refused. F. White 
brought in pen and ink. I took hold of Anne, and Anne 
took hold of me. Sam Stratton was in the room. Che- 
ney was called back — said they had help enough, but 
Hinds commanded him to assist. Jim Cheney took hold 
of me; Hinds took me round the waist. Hinds threw me 
on the bed. 1 told them they ought to be in better busi- 
ness—they were insulting — they separated us. Foster 
and Stratton were trying to hold a pen in Anne's hand to 
make her make her mark — I don't know nothing what 
the paper was, and nothing about it. I scrabbled round 



and got away from Hinds — Anne was in the road and 
■Stratton had hold of her — I was so flustered that I did'nt 
see Cheney, guess he was about somewhere, Foster was 
writing- on the wall — went to see what he was up to — 
took hold of the paper and pulled it away from him. 
He said it was well I didn't tear that paper, I should 
have had to go to State Prison during- my life, if I had— - 
I went back into the house to see my child, and they 
carried Anne off. Stratton said in the bedroom, well, well, 
enough has been said, take her along. I didn't see her 
after they carried her off. Saw her in Grand Jury room, 
have not seen her since. When at the table, told my 
brother to run for father and Mr. Putnam. I always 
lived in Upton till I went to New York six years ago, 
remained there till 1835. 

Examined by Mr. Mien. — Said, Anne went out with oth- 
er children. There was a school in the neighborhood — 
she didn't go to school, or to meeting since she came 
from Louisiana. Her principal work was to nurse the 
child, and to do other chores, such as I chose to have 
her do. She sometimes went to Judah Wright's and got 
a pail of water. We lived at the top of the hill, and 
Wright down the hill — it was'nt so steep a hill as I have 
seen — the hill is there and you can see it. She did not 
bring 10 pails of water in a day —some days, not any, 
she carried it on her head — I told her to, as she could 
bring it easier, she was most used to that way— didn't 
see her spill the water. 

Question was then put to Mrs. Eames by Mr Allen, 
whether she intended to carry Anne back as a slave. 
This question was objected to by Mr. Merrick, who re- 
marked-Mrs. Eames has not ventured to say that she was 
in her voluntary service. Objection was overruled by 
the Court. 

Question by Mr. Allen.— What did you intend to do with 
her? Jlns-. I did not intend to compel her against her will. 
I suppese she would tell me what she wished. I never 
considered her property, after I came to the North — never called 
her property after I came into this free country. I never 
made no application to any one in New Orleans to buy 
her afterwards. I gave no commission about the sale of 
Anne — I had no negociations to sell her there, when she 
returned. If I went back to live in New Orleans, I should 
keep her — set very much by her — I don't think I said I 
should carry Anne back. It was my intention to go back 



10 

— I don't know that I should have asked her consent to 
carry her back — can't tell what I should do — should car- 
ry her, if she was willing to go — I had no more interest 
in her than in any other — I always set by her — I never 
told her she was a slave or free, told her she was to live 
with sister June, if I did. Her health has not been injur- 
ed by carrying" water and other loads. I don't recollect say- 
ing she would answer my purpose as long as I wanted her. Mrs. 
Caldwell said, I had better call a physician and do some- 
thing- for her. I didn't say she would answer long enough 
for my use, never. I did not say that no body ever heard 
of sending for a doctor for a negro. Hinds took me in 
full possession. Scratch 9 Should 'nt think strange if J did. 
Bite 9 They know best if they got bit. 

Col. Hinds called. — I made service of the writ of 
personal replevin. I think, I took it from my table, Mr. 
Allen did not furnish me with the form of a return, when 
I took the writ. 

The writ and bond I took together. I went to Mr. Judah 
Wright's, I think Mr. Cheney went with me to Wright's ; 
neither of the Def'ts was there while I was there. I 
stopped at the door. I saw the deft's first at Col. Strat- 
ton's. Found Stratton, Foster and Cheney there. My 
partner told me to call there, as there would be sureties 
there to sign the bond. Bond was not signed there. I 
told them it was necessary for the girl to sign the bond 
first. The next I saw Stratton and Foster, they came 
into the house at Mr. Sherman's. I did not see Anne 
make her mark to the paper. I saw Foster and Stratton 
sign their names, one did it out of doors, I am not sure 
but both. Anne stood in the road close by, when Foster 
and Cheney signed their names. Anne was pretty much 
alone. I took the paper. They walked down to Chen- 
ey's. Stratton, Foster, and Cheney came there, no one 
ted her. She walked independently by herself. I was be- 
hind her. There was a carriage at Cheney's. Foster, 
Stratton and Anne were in the carriage. I took the paper. 
Jlsked Anne if she made her mark. She said, she did. I got 
Mr. White to witness it. She sat on the backseat. Would 
not be seen from the houses as she passed. I did not 
know where she was going. I told her she was going to 
Worcester. I told Stratton and Foster, they must take 
charge of her. I don't recollect making arrangements 
with Foster and Stratton to take her, before I took her 
from Mrs. Eames. Mr. Stratton lived 2 1-2 or 3 miles from 



11 

there, Mr. Foster 1-2 a mile, or more, farther. They 
would come past the meeting-house to get to Stratton's. 
I told Anne at Mrs. Eames's I think, that she was going to 
Worcester. 

Cross Examined. — I directed Mr. Foster and Stratton to 
take Anne and put her in some safe place, where she 
would not be taken away or stolen. We went to the 
house of Mrs. Eames — were invited in — I inquired for 
Mrs. Eames. Mrs. Eames came. I asked her if she had 
a colored girl with her. She said she had. I told her I 
came to take her. She said she did not know what busi- 
ness I had to take her girl. I told her I would show the 
authority. I read the writ. She said, I might take my 
writ and go home — I should not have the girl. I told her 
I was bound to take her and must take her. I must take 
her at all events. She said she would call her. She 
did not find her. We walked out and walked round. 
Cheney went to the back-house door — it was shut. He 
called ; Anne answered. I told Anne, I had come afterher 
to carry her away. I asked her if she wanted to go. She 
dropped her head, and said, " I don't know." Her mis- 
tress spoke and said, " don't know, Jlnne ? you know you don't 
want to go." Anne made no reply. Mistress spoke very 
quick. I then talked with Mrs. Eames some time, told 
her to be quiet. If I did what I ought not, she would 
have a bond to cover all expense. After trying a great 
while to persuade her to give her up peaceably, the girl 
went into a small room. I went there — Mrs. Eames fol- 
lowed, and took the girl round with both hands and held 
her tight. I asked Mrs. Sherman to take the child. She 
would not, I took the child myself, and Anne let go of it. 
I stepped into the kitchen. I saw several young ladies, 
I asked one to take it. She said she did not know as it 
would answer. 1 told her I would stand between her and 
harm. She took it. I stepped back into the little room. 
Mrs. Eames still stood clinched round the girl. I called 
upon her to give her up. She refused. I took hold ofoneof 
Mrs. Eames's hands, and Cheney the other. Mrs. Eames 
resisted violently. She tried to bite and scratch. Our 
throwing her on to a bed must be a mistake. It must be 
some other time and person. There might have been a 
bed in the room, but I think there was not. We were 
there an hour and a half trying to persuade her. I said 
every thing I could. She xoas very violent the whole time. I 
used as little violence as possible to effect the object. 



12 

She clinched at the paper once, but did not get hold of 
it. I was close by, Foster was there with the paper- 
She was out at the wall, I think, when they signed the 
paper. I heard no such declaration of Foster at the wall. 
I heard no such declaration of Mr. Foster at any time as r 
you would have had to go to State Prison, &c. If such a 
declaration was made, I must have heard it. I was very 
close to Foster, when he put his name to the bond. After 
Anne had left her mistress, she went very willingly — was 
perfectly composed and calm. She walked down cheerfully, 
and after she was in the carriage, she appeared very clieerfuL 

I told Mrs. Eames she had better keep the bond as her 
security. Mr. White took no part whatever in this, except 
going after ink. I sent Mr. Cheney to get ink somewhere. 
Mr>, Cheney came without the ink-stand, and Mr. White 
followed with it. That was the first of Mr. White's being 
at the house. I don't recollect Mr. Foster's meddling at all. 
He had the paper at the table,, that was the first of Mr. Fos- 
ter's haying any thing to do. Besides this, I don't know 
any thing that Mr. Foster did. 

I told Mr. Foster and Cheney and Stratton, it was neces- 
sary for them all to sign the bond. Mr. White witnessed 
the bond, at my request. Anne looked at the paper T and 
made her mark. I took the paper and asked her if she held 
the pen and made the cross. I asked her if she did it vol- 
untarily and freely, she replied, she did'. I told them I 
presumed an effort would he made to arrest her, and told? 
them to take care of her. Cheney did not interfere, except 
by my command. After I told him he must, at first he 
rather hesitated. 

It is my impression that Mrs. Eames repeatedly said r 
Anne was her property, but I cannot certainly testify. It 
is my impression she did. 

Anne called. — I live with Mr. Edward Earle, in Worces- 
ter^ I remember Col. Hinds ; I went first to Mr. Morey's., 
in Worcester. I did not know where I was going. I came 
With Mr. Foster and Mr., Stratton. I had seen Mr., Stratton. 
at Mr. Cheney's house., I had never spoken to either of 
them. I had not seen Mr. Foster before that day. I had 
been at Mr. Cheney's house alone. It was about a week 
before. I left,, I went for butter. I was not there but a lit-, 
tie while. They told me the way to Mr. Cheney's house. 
I came from New Orleans with Mrs. Eames. I had not al- 
ways lived at New Orleans. I washed dishes and took care 



13 

of the child. Went to the village, went for whortleberries, 
sometimes alone, and sometimes with the children. I was 
in Grafton at Mr. Reuben Eames's with Mrs. Eames. I us- 
ed to take care of George. I did not go to the neighbors 
there. I went with the children to one house in Grafton. 
I never sent any message or errand to Mr. Foster or Col. 
Stratton. I never asked any one to ask either of them to do 
any thing for me. I never told Mrs. Eames I wanted to go 
away and leave her. I was in the house when Col. Hinds 
and the other men came. I knew who Mr. Cheney was — » 
not who the other men were. I went out of the room. 

I had never put my name or made my mark to paper before 
that day. There] was a paper on the table. The paper 
was not read to me. Nobody there told me what was in 
the paper. Foster put a pen into my hand. Told me to 
mark my name on it. I believe I made a mark on it. I 
believe, he did help me make the mark. After I left the 
table, I went into the road. I don't know who told me to 
go, Mr. Cheney or Mr. Foster. I went to Cheney's house.. 
I believe, Mr. Foster went with me. I believe, Mr. Foster 
took hold of my hand. I went right to the carriage. Got 
into it. Mr. Stratton and Mr. Foster went with me. They 
went to Worcester. When I got there, it was dark. 

Cross Examined. — I believe, it was Mr. Foster who had 
my hand, I am not sure. I went from Virginia to New Or- 
leans. I was employed to carry water from Mr. Wright's — 
I carried a great many pails of water in a day. My mistress 
told me to carry them on my head. My mistress told me 
that I was thirteen while I was at Holden. She said she 
meant to carry me back to New Orleans again. She said 
she was going to sell me when she carried me there. 

Did you express a wish to have your personal liberty ? 
Objected to by Counsel for Government. Though it was 
reported to the defendants that she wished her liberty, her 
mind might have changed. 

No person has a right to sue out the writ, unless author- 
ized by the person restrained of his liberty. When a party 
is restrained of his liberty he is entitled to the writ.. No, 
agencycan be created but by the act of the principal. The 
15th Section of the law provides that the friends may sue- 
out this writ. A child cannot have the process because a 
bond is to be executed. To sue out a writ, unless a person 
is imprisoned, is an injury to him. Suppose Anne's condi- 



14 

tion is not improved. When the bond was given by Anne, 
it was of no validity. 

Judge Strong decided, — It is not necessary to meet and 
settle all the difficulties which may arise under this Statute. 
I am inclined to the opinion that the Legislature does not 
mean that any person must have an implied authority — but 
the act is an authority. 

Anne resumed. — I expressed a desire to have my liberty 
before I was taken from Holden. I told Miss White that I 
wanted to be free. It was Henrietta White. I told Mrs. 
Warren I wanted to be free. She sits back by the door. 

My mistress knocked me across the head with the toast- 
ing iron — my mistress lived in Holden, when she struck 
me with the toasting iron. 

John Morey called. — The colored girl came to my house. 
Mr. Stratton and Mr. Foster brought her there — I did not 
know which day she was coming — Mr. Stratton and anoth- 
er gentleman told me she was coming. It was two or three 
days before. After she arrived at my house, Anne was kept 
up chamber some time. Mr. Stratton thought she would 
be more contented at my house, than with people who were 
not of the same color. They wished me to let her go to 
school — She was kept in my chamber, we were afraid she 
would be stolen. 

[Note. — The witness is inquired of whether there were 
threats in the community of a rescue. The question is ob- 
jected to — and the objection is sustained.] 

Mr. Morey resumed. — Anne was very well contented at 
my house. She said she desired her liberty. I was not di- 
rected to restrain or seclude her any farther than was ne- 
cessary for her protection. Col. Stratton and Mr. Elnathan 
Davis offered to pay the expense of her schooling. Col. 
Stratton was at my house once or twice — cannot tell wheth- 
er the same person was with him second time or not. 

Mrs, Betsey Sherman called. — I am the mother of Mrs. 
Eames. Mrs. Eames lived with me at the village and on 
the hill. 

I recollect the time when Anne was put down cellar. 
She did something worthy of punishment, Mrs. Eames told 
lier to go down cellar. She refused. Mrs. Eames put her 
down. One or the other hit the toasting iron, and it fell. 
She made much ado about it. 

Before Hinds came to the house, I did not see any other 



15 

person. Cheney and Hinds came together. Anne was in 
the house. She had been after apples. Hinds inquired for 
Mrs. Eames — I introduced him to Mrs. Eames. They went 
back into the room. He asked Mrs. Eames if she had a 
colored girl in her possession. She said she had. He ask- 
ed, if he could see her. She said he could. He told her, 
he had come after her. She asked by what authority he 
came after her girl ? She told Col. Hinds that Anne was 
as free as any person. If he could get her away by flatter- 
ing, she was willing he should. She went out to look for 
Anne. Anne came in through the kitchen. Hinds asked 
her if she wanted to go with him. She said NO, sir. He 
told her, Worcester was a pretty place. She faced the plas- 
tering and began to cry. Hinds took the babe. I refused 
to take it. He carried it to Mrs. Flagg in the other room. 
He came back and went into the bed-room. Mrs. Eames; 
was there. Perhaps, Cheney was there. She took hold of 
Anne and Hinds took hold of her. They were all hold of 
each other, justling. They got Anne up to the table by 
pushing and pulling along. They were all huddled up to- 
gether. Mrs. Eames was thrown on a bed in the kitchen. 
Farnum White brought the inkstand in. I saw Stratton 
and Foster put the pen into her hand, and take her hand 
into his, as though they meant her to write. Nobody told 
what was in the paper in my hearing. They pushed Anne, 
out. Col. Stratton gave me a push back, as I went to the 
door — left a blue mark on my arm. I went down to- the 
carriage. I saw them as they were going down to the car- 
riage. First, one had her arm, and then the other. I saw 
a man at the wall, Mr. Foster. He had a paper and pen. 
Mrs. Eames was not amongst them. I don't know that I. 
saw her at the wall. 

Cross Examined. — I don't recollect what Anne had done. 
Anne made a fuss about it, (the toasting iron.) I think she 
might be heard at Mrs. White's — I did not go towards the 
cellar at all. I did not leave my seat. I dont know where 
I was sitting — I heard the toasting iron fall — All I know 
about its falling, was, I heard it fall. Mrs. Eames was. 
there when the toasting iron fell. All I know is, the toast- 
ing iron fell down cellar and made something of a racket. 
I cannot swear that Mrs. Eames did not throw the toasting 
iron down cellar. Anne made some fuss a minute or two, 
the cellar door was shut. I should not think she was down 



16 

cellar over fifteen minutes. I cannot tell the time. I don't 
recollect about its being said that Mrs. Eames would send 
for Mr. Sherman, and he would take the horse-whip to her. 
This affair was when Mrs. Eames first came to Holden. 

I did not like it very much to have people come in as 
they (the defendants) did. It excited some hard feelings. 
I think Hinds was there an hour and a half. Mrs. Eames 
and Hinds were standing alone^ and Hinds threw her on a 
bed. At that time, I was not doing any thing. I don't 
know as Hinds let go of Mrs. Eames after they came out of 
the bed-room — I cannot say. 

George Putnam, a lad, called. — I am son of Le Barron 
Putnam, When Anne was taken, I was between Wright's 
and Stratton's. I saw two men hold of ber-^-one hold of 
each Avrist. I was in the road. They did not go by me. 
They were a little past Mr. Wright's, when I first saw 
ihem. I came from home. 

Cross Examined. — Charles Drury was with me. Charles 
got there a little first. I don't know how far I was from 
Stratton's house. They were not dragging her along. I 
did not see them dragging her. I don't know that I said 
•they were dragging her. I think, she was hanging back a 
little. I did not notice whether they were walking fast or 
not. I don't know whether she was hanging back, or 
whether they were walking fast, and holding her, and she ■ 
keeping up as well as she could* 

Thomas Randali, called.— I was near Mr. Stratton's 
when Anne went away. I was between Stratton's and 
Wright's ; not more than 2 rods from Stratton's. I saw a 
person hold of each hand of Anne. I did not know them. 
I cannot tell who they were. They were this side of Mr. 
Wright's, between Wright's and Stratton's. I followed 
down a little way. I did not see them until they got to 
Cheney's. They had hold of her hands as long as I was 
there. She was hanging back. I heard nothing said. 

Cross Examined. — I do not recollect that I have denied 
all this statement. I do not recollect that I ever said, she 
was not hanging back. I don't recollect that I ever said 
that I had told one story before the grand jury, and I must 
stick to it. I did not notice particularly, whether they Avere 
travelling fast or not. I was from 10 to 15 rods from them. 
I cannot tell whether I was Avithin 30 rods of them or not. 
I cannot say Avhether I Avas Avithin 40 rods or not of them. 



17 

I have mentioned It to Le Barron Putnam. I cannot say 
whether Putnam was here or not, when Grand Jury met. 
Two of James Stratton's boys were near me — about a rod 
off — a rod or two. I was going to Mr. Stratton's — boarded 
there then, and board there now. 

George Putnam called again. — I was at home when I 
heard something was going on at Sherman's. I was at the 
top of the hill with the rest of the boys. When I got to 
the top of the hill, they were beyond Mr. Wright's. I don't 
know whether I went half way to Mr. Wright's from the 
top of the hill or not. I don't know whether I walked or 
run — I told my father what I saw. 

Mrs. Olivia Eames again called.— I never struck Anne 
with a toasting iron. Anne had committed some little 
crime. I was going to shut her down cellar. I took her 
forward of me and in getting her down, the toasting iron 
fell down. She cried considerably. Always did when I 
punished her. 

Henry Butterfield called— It is between 22 and 24 
rods from Wright's to Sherman's house. I did not tell Mr. 
Clifford if I had been pre^nt, I should have butchered the 
officer or run a sword tirough him. I said if I had been 
there, and the girl had taken on as I heard she did, I would 
have died between tie gate posts, before she would have 
gone. 

Col. Hinds 0l e( ^ again- — It is not true that Mrs. Eames 
told me that if T could persuade Anne to go away, I might. 
She repeated!/ told Anne she should not go, and me, that I 
should not lave her- She told Anne a number of times 
not to giv U P the child. She said Anne was as free as any 
girl. Sb 3 said she had papers to show to that effect. Re- 
fused t' show any papers. Said she had them. 

Mr? Patty Caldwell called by D eft's. — I live with Judah 
Wright, my brother. I saw Anne frequently, every day al- 
m rst, she came for water. She came many times. One 
day she carried 10 pails full, I counted. Washing days she 
carried more. Carried a great many. It is a very steep 
hill from my house to Mr. Sherman's. She carried it awhile 
in her hands as other women do. Then she used frequent- 
ly to put it on her head. Her back was so weak she did 
not know how to carry it in her arms. I know nothing 
but that the pails were full. 1 told Mrs. Eames, I thought 
it would ruin the child. I told her, she must doctor her. 



18 

She was diseased. It was plain enough to be discovered. 
I told Mrs. Eames, I thought it was occasioned by her 
lifting and working more than her age would bear. Mrs. 
Eames replied, doctor a negro ! She said, it was almost 
impossible to doctor a negro. She said, she had boiled i 
sheep's bladder in some milk and given her. She said, she 
was going to sell her, and she would not be of any use to 
her much longer. She would answer her purpose what lit- 
tle time she wanted her. She was going off with her. 
Time and again, Anne expressed a great desire that she 
might be free. Anne said nothing against the family. Af- 
ter Mr. Richardson talked with her, one day she came to 
me and said, O, Mi s . Caldwell, do you think they will do 
any thing for me 2 \ heard her say more to my brother 
Wright. She would often say, she was a poor slave and 
must be sold again. Aiv^e was there with Mrs. Sherman, 
she brought a little web of li ne n diaper. I said, is Mrs. 
Eames going to cut it up former babe 2. Mrs. Sherman said, 
oh no, she is going to make h^ ne some aprons. She must 
clothe her until she sold her. \ sa id, then the poor girl is 
going to be sold. She said, yes. This was about a week 
before she went away. After her Mother had washed,, Mrs. 
Eames came down and washed a fi\ c k 5 and the conversa- 
tion I have before stated, took pla^. She said, Anne 
would be no benefit to her now she got \q weak. She sai& 
there would be a fuss, if she kept her h^ e ^ an d therefore 
she must sell her. I told Anne I mistrust^ there would 
be a stir made to take her away. I said, s^ might have 
her choice. If she told them she wished ^ stay, she 
might, and if she told them she wanted to go, \ thought 
she might. She said, I want to be free, I want t\l e f ree _ 

I never saw the day when I could cany the wa;er she 
did. My health always rather poor. I was in Mrs, Sher- 
man's one day. Anne was told to take a bushel basketand 
get the refuse of the hoop-poles. The girl looked unwil- 
ling. Mrs. E. said, I an't afraid of their hurting you. V 
did not stay. 

I was summoned before the Grand Jury. I was not ask- 
ed to go before the jury and tell my story. I was here two 
days. I said to Mrs. Eames, it is a hard case to be sum- 
moned without any fees, and you had no reason to think 
I should say any thing in your favor. She replied, hard as 
it is, it is not so hard as mine, to have all my property 



19 

taken away. When they took the girl, they took THE 
CHIEF OF MY PROPERTY. 

I told Mr. Cheney, I pitied the poor girl, for she said 
they were going to carry her off and sell her, and she want- 
ed to be free. I told him I thought christians could not 
pass over such things. I told him, she said she wanted re- 
lief from some body. Mrs. Warren heard me talk about it 
with Anne. 

Cross Examined. — These conversations were all at my 
brother's house. I did not tell Mrs. Eames that Anne want- 
ed her freedom. I was afraid she would abuse her. The 
first time I heard Anne speak of the subject, she was at my 
brother's house, and he asked her where she lived ? and she 
told him. He asked her if she always lived with Mrs 
Eames ? She said no, she was sold to her. He asked her 
if she was a slave then ? She said yes. He asked her if 
she expected to be? She said she expected to be sold again. He 
asked if she did not feel bad about being sold ? she said 
she did, but as she must be sold, she had rather go back 
and be sold at New Orleans, than be a field slave, for she 
understood they fared hard. I cannot say that my brother 
told her she was free, but think he did, at that time. She 
said, she had been told so before. 

Mrs. Julia Ann Flagg called by Defendants. — I live 
in the house of Mrs. Sherman. I heard Col. Hinds come 
in and enquire for Anne. Mrs. Eames called her, came 
back without her. Told Mr. Hinds if he would be seated, 
she would call her. She brought her in — Hinds asked An- 
ne, if she wanted to go with him ? She seemed frightened 
and said she " did not know.' 1 '' Mrs. Eames said, yes you 
do know too. Mr. Hinds asked Anne, if she had a shawl and 
bonnet ? She said, she did not know. He asked how old 
she was. She said she did nor know. He asked Mrs. 
Eames her age. She told him, it was none of his business, 
she was not so very old. Mrs. Eames told Anne to keep 
the babe. After Mr. Hinds took it, she told Anne she 
should not go — not to go. She told Anne to go into the 
bed room. I was present when they were at the table with 
Anne. Col. Hinds did not throw Mrs. Eames on the bed. 
Mrs. Eames took hold of Anne, not gently, she hurt her 
very much, I think. She laid hold of her violently. Mrs. 
Eames was very angry all the time, Mrs. Sherman was al- 
so very angry. Mrs. Eames told Mr. Hinds Anne should not 



20 

go, and he should not take her. She did not say any thing 
to Mr. Hinds about Anne's being at liberty to go if she 
wanted to, or if he could persuade her to go. Mrs. Eames 
scratched and bit. Col. Hinds called Mr. Cheney to help. 
Mrs. Eames told Anne not to sign the paper. She told her 
mother not to let her sign the paper. Anne went willingly 
with the men. I saw them down as far as Mr. Wright's. 
She did not lean back. That day, before Col. Hinds came, 
Mrs. Eames wanted to know what ailed the nigger, she 
was so lively ; said, she had always had to drive her to 
work, but that day, she had'nt had to speak to her. Anne 
did not make a noise or scream, when she went away. She 
made no disturbance or fuss. Anne was very cheerful that 
morning, uncommonly so. After Anne had left, more than 
once Mrs. Eames called Anne to come back, not to go. 
She did not turn her head round. Before they came, Mrs. 
Eames told her,, she must change her dress and mend the 
one she wore, as she must wear it back to the South. Mrs. 
Eames said, she was going to carry her back to the South, 
and was going to sell her. Have heard her say it more 
than once. She said Mr. Eames paid $800 for her two 
years ago, and she would fetch $1000, now, as she was. 
about two years older. Anne packed up her clothes. Mrs. 
Eames found them packed up the day before, in 
two bundles. She came down and told her mother that 
she had found Anne's clothes tied up, and that, if it washit 
a nigger, it looked like running away. I believe she had 
tied them up the day before. It was that day Mrs. Eames 
spoke thus. 

I heard Mrs. Eames tell Anne that if she ever told any 
thing out of the house, that happened in it, she would kill 
her dead. Mrs. Eames read in my hearing a letter, I took 
it to be from New Orleans, informing her that business was- 
dull, that she had better not come back herself, that she 
could send Anne, that they had found a place for her y 
where they could sell her. 

After Anne was taken, Mrs. Eames said, she had fought 
hard, but not any harder than any one would, losing their 
PROPERTY. 

I thought Col. Hinds and those who were with him ap- 
peared like gentlemen. Col. Hinds talked long, tried to per- 
suade Mrs. Eames to let her go. He read the bond to Mrs. 
Eames, she would not hear it. 



21 

Cross Examined. — I reside in the house with Mrs. Sher- 
man. I think it likely, I have made communications like 
these. I told Miss White and Mrs. Caldwell. 

At this point in the examination, two witnesses only 
having been called on the part of the defendants, 

Mr. Merrick said, — / have come to the conclusion that 
the evideyice abundantly justified the issuing of the process, 
and that the defendants are fully entitled to a verdict of 
acquittal. I shall prosecute the case no farther. 

The jury immediately gave a verdict of acquittal. 

By this sudden termination of the trial, the defendants are 
deprived of the opportunity of submitting the rest of their 
evidence. They had a large number of reputable witnes- 
ses in attendance, by whom they would have met most ful- 
ly every fact and circumstance which could be relied upon 
to show an impropriety of conduct on the part of any, who 
were concerned in giving freedom to Anne. By several 
witnesses they would have confirmed the evidence already 
in the case that the conduct of Col. Hinds and those who 
were with him, in executing the process of law, was kind 
and courteous and as mild as the resistance they met with 
permitted it to be, and in all respects as it should have been 
— that the witnesses who testified of rudeness to Mrs. Eames r 
were in a remarkable error — that Anne was not compelled to 
sign the bond — was not dragged away as was stated by some 
of the witnesses — that there was no haste in removing her ; 
that the carriage in which she was conveyed was the one r 
which was ordinarily used by Col. Stratton — that there was 
no more concealment of her than was rendered necessary 
for her protection until a trial should be had, in conse- 
quence of threats of violence. 

They are prepared to prove further, by various witnesses, 
the often expressed desire of Anne, that somebody would 
interfere and prevent her removal, and sale as a slave — the 
hardships she endured — the knowledge she had joyfully re- 
ceived, that men were coming to release her — her prepara- 
tion for the event, voluntarily and privately made, without 
the knowledge of any one — and the pleasure she expressed 
as soon as she was beyond the view of the eye she had 
learned to fear, and dared give utterance to her thoughts, 
and feelings. As the trial was arrested, the defendants can 
give in the form of evidence nothing more than the testi- 



22 

mony of Mr. Judah Wright, a man long known by many, 
and greatly respected for his virtues and intelligence, and 
for the acquisitions of knowledge which he has made, hav- 
ing never been blessed with sight. Being prevented from 
attending as a witness, his deposition was taken on the first 
day of the trial. 



DEPOSITION OF JUDAH WRIGHT. 

INTERROGATORIES PUT TO JUDAH WRIGHT. 

1. Were you acquainted with Anne, a colored girl in 
the service of Olivia Eames, in Holden, in the summer of 
1838 ? If yes, state what opportunities, if any, you had of 
conversing with her, how frequently, and where ? 

2. Did said Anne ever converse with you before she left 
Holden, respecting any desire she had for personal liberty, 
or respecting her condition, or her relation to Mrs. Eames ? 
If yes, state what she said at any such conversation, or con- 
versations relative to the above subjects ? 

3. How near the time of the departure from Holden of 
Anne, did any of the conversations aforesaid occur, and 
which ? 

4. To whom, if any, did you communicate the above 
conversations, and did you communicate them before the day 
when said Anne left Holden ? [This was objected to by 
the Counsel for the Government.] 

CROSS INTERROGATIONS, BY THE COUNSEL FOR THE GOVERNMENT. 

1. If you state any conversations with said Anne, state 
where and when each of said conversations took place — 
who was present at each — how each conversation was intro- 
duced, and all that was said on each particular occasion, 
both by herself and yourself, and any other person engaged 
in such conversation. 

2. How near did you live to Mr. Sherman in Holden, 
while Mrs. Eames was there during the season of 1838 ? 
and how often, and how many times did you see said Anne 
during that time, and where ? 

3. If you state that said Anne had any conversations 
with you respecting personal liberty, did you take any 



23 

measures whatever to ascertain if she was, in fact, under 
duress, or held in restraint ? if so, please state what you did 
to ascertain the same. 

4. If you state that you communicated any conversation 
had by you with said Anne to any person, please state the 
name of any and every person to whom you communicated 
the same ■ and at what times you did so~ 

5. Have you now stated the whole of every conversa- 
tion of which you have given any testimony ? if not please 
state whatever has been omitted. 

6. Has any person other than the Magistrate taking 
your deposition been present during the taking of the same ? 
if so, state the names of all such persons. 

MR. Wright's answers. 

And now the said Judah Wright, bemg first duly cau- 
tioned, examined, and sworn, makes the following answers 
to the foregoing interrogatories, to wit. 

1. To the first interrogatory, this deponent saith, That 
he was well acquainted with the colored girl, Anne, men- 
tioned in said interrogatory, in the summer of 1838. Mr, 
Sherman's family, with Avhom Mrs. Earner and the colored 
girl lived, resided within about forty rods of me. The well 
at Mr. Sherman's house became dry, as I understood, and 5 
they applied to me for leave to draw water at my well. I 
gave them leave, and Anne was the principal person em- 
ployed in drawing water. As the well was situated in the 
rear of the house, and as they could not get at it without 
elimbing over the fence, I gave them leave to pass through 
my house. This circumstance led to a particular acquaint- 
ance with Anne, as she used to pass through the kitchen 
into a back room in which I worked making baskets. She 
passed through there many times every day ; on washing- 
days I should think twenty times. 

2. To the second interrogatory, this deponent sai.th\ 
That he did converse with the said Anne, before she left 
Holden, as to her wishes for her personal liberty. She said 
she was a slave, from one of the northern slave-holding 
States, and was carried to the south, and was there sold as, 
a slave to Mr. Eames ; and that after Mr. Eames's death 
she became the property of Mrs. Eames. She often told 
me that she expected to be sold again ; that Mrs. Eames 



24 

told her she was going to New Orleans in the fall, and 
should dispose of her. She said she wished to learn to 
read, and to attend meeting, but unless she got her liberty 
she never expected to. She frequently expressed a strong 
desire to have her liberty, but I never encouraged her to ex- 
pect it, lest she should take some steps to work her deliver- 
ance, and should fail. She used to say that she did not 
know as there was any way for her to get her liberty ; but 
if she must be a slave, she hoped she should be sold in New 
Orleans, or some city, for she had always understood that 
such slaves fared better than those who were employed in 
the field. There were a number of these conversations ; 
frequently through the season. I recollect one conversation 
in particular, which was on Sunday morning, I think early 
in September, and at the time when Mr. John Richardson 
came over to read to me. 

3. To the third interrogatory, this deponent answers 
and saith, That he should think the said conversation, in 
presence of Mr. Richardson, was not more than a week be- 
fore said Anne left Holden. She was in at my house after 
this conversation, but there was nothing in particular said. 
We had an idea that she was watched. The day before 
•she went away, she was in and bid me good bye, and said 
she did not know as she should see me again ; she did not 
know but she should be called for. 

4. To the fourth interrogatory, this deponent answers 
and saith, That he did communicate these conversations to 
several before Anne left Holden. That he communicated 
them to Mr. Richardson, Mr. Cheney, Mr. Farnum 
White, Jr., Henrietta White, and some others. I do not 
mean to say that I communicated all the conversations to 
all these persons. I was cautious about it. I only meant 
to make it understood that the girl wanted her liberty. 

1. To the first cross interrogatory, this deponent answers 
and says, That the said conversations with Anne, all took place 
at his house. They commenced when she began drawing 
water there, and he thinks this was in June. The conver- 
sations were had frequently, and mostly in his shop, when 
no one was present. Sometimes his sister was present, and 
Mr. Richardson was once present, and the deponent does 
not recollect that any other one was present at any of the 
conversations. Deponent cannot state how all these con- 



25 

versations were introduced ; he sometimes introduced them, 
and sometimes she did. It is impossible to state all these 
conversations. The tenor of them was that she wanted her 
liberty, and I sympathised with her. But I did not give her 
any hope of her deliverance. 

2. To the second cross interrogatory, this deponent saith, 
That he should think he lived in the season of 1838, about 
forty rods from Mr. Sherman's. He saw the said Anne sev- 
eral times a day generally, and washing days he should 
think probably as much as twenty times. He never saw 
her anywhere, that he recollects, but at his house. I use 
the words see and saw just as other folks do. What I mean 
is, I never met with her, &c. 

3. To the third cross interrogatory, this deponent saith, 
That it was understood in Holden, that the said Anne was 
a slave. She said she was a slave. At first I did not know 
how much she could be relied on, but on acquaintance, I 
found her intelligence was such, that I thought she could 
be relied on. The deponent took no further measures to 
ascertain whether she was under any restraint. 

4. To the fourth cross interrogatory, this deponent saith, 
That he cannot state more particularly than he has already 
done, to whom he communicated any of his conversations 
with the said Anne. Nor can he state definitely, at what 
times such communications were made. There was a good 
deal said upon the subject, especially within a few weeks 
of the time when the girl went away ; and he thinks it 
probable that he communicated most of the conversations 
within that time, but he cannot state positively. 

5. To the fifth cross interrogatory, this deponent saith, 
That he does not suppose that he has stated the whole of 
each conversation, for it would be impossible for him to do 
it. He has meant to give a fair general representation. 

6. To the sixth cross interrogatory, this deponent saith, 
That he is blind ; he has heard of no one being present, 
and he presumes no one was present at the time of his giv- 
ing this deposition, but the magistrate and Mrs. Betsey 
Stratton. his 

Judah X Wright. 

MARK. 

Worcester, ss. On the 29th day of January, in the year 
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-nine, 
the aforesaid deponent was examined, and cautioned, and 
4 



26 

sworn, agreeable to law, to the deposition aforesaid, by him 
subscribed, taken at the request of Samuel Stratton and oth- 
ers, and to be used in an indictment now pending between 
them and the Commonwealth, before the Court of Common 
Pleas, and taken upon the interrogatories hereto annexed. 
The said Judah Wright being unable to attend Court, on 
account of bodily infirmity, is the cause of taking this de- 
position. Ira Barton, Justice of the Peace. 



CONSTRUCTION OF THE STATUTE. 

In the course of the cross-examination of Anne, (see p. 13,) the follow- 
ing discussion arose upon the consrruction of the Statute of 1837, ch. 221. 

Enquiry was made of the witness by the counsel of the 
defendants whether she had communicated to any person 
her desire to be free. 

By the counsel for the Government — Unless the commu- 
nication was made to the defendants, the inquiry is irrele- 
vant. 

The counsel for the defendants replied, that it was intend- 
ed to bring the knowledge of the wishes of the witness 
home to the defendants. The question was still objected 
to by the counsel for the Government, and an extended ar- 
gument was entered into respecting the principles of law, 
which should govern the case. We have not room for all 
the reasoning and illustrations of counsel, but will briefly 
state the questions of law which arose. ' 

It was contended by the counsel for the Government, 
that the defendants could justify the institution of the pro- 
cess of personal replevin only by showing that the girl, 
Anne, had in some manner requested them to aid her in ob- 
taining her liberty. That they could act only as her agents, 
and under authority previously conferred by her ; that al- 
though no " express " power of attorney was necessary, in 
some way it must be proved, that Anne desired and author- 
ized them to interfere ; that no subsequent ratification by 
her of their doings, would be sufficient for the protection of 
the defendants ; and that no justification could be found for 
their conduct, in the condition of the girl, while under re- 
straint, nor in the benefits, however great, which they may 
have conferred upon her ; that although the defendants, 
without doubt, believed that the girl was in bondage, and 



27 

that they were called upon as philanthropists to assert her 
rights, yet in law their conduct could not be upheld. The 
consequences of allowing any other person than the agent 
of the party principally interested, to institute the process 
of personal replevin, were urged by way of objection ; par- 
ticularly, that the individual, in whose favor the suit was 
commenced, might be subjected to cost,. and that the stat- 
ute of 1837 afforded inadequate protection in this respect. 
An exception was made, in favor of parents and others, who 
stood in near relation to the party in duress. 

It was replied, by the counsel for the defendants, that 
they must be acquitted of the crime, alleged in the indict- 
ment, if the jury should be satisfied, that the defendants 
believed, at the time of sueing out the aforesaid process, 
that Anne was held in duress, and that the purpose of the 
defendants was, to relieve her from unlawful restraint. 
They were indicted for a conspiracy to deprive Mrs. Eames 
11 of the voluntary service of Anne;" and the indictment 
further charged, that to effect such object, that is, the remov- 
al of Anne from voluntary service, the defendants unlaw- 
fully availed themselves of a process of law, adapted to ob- 
tain the liberty of one, who was in duress. Should it then 
appear, that the defendants believed, that the girl was un- 
lawfully restrained of her liberty ; and that they instituted 
the process of personal replevin, for the purpose of removing 
the supposed unlawful restraint upon her person, they must 
be acquitted of the crime alleged against them. Such must 
be the result, although the government should prove, that 
the girl was a voluntary servant of Mrs. Eames. 

But the defendants were prepared to go further than simply 
to refute the charge in the indictment, and obtain an acquit- 
al of the crime specifically alleged against them. They 
vindicated their right to institute the process of replevin ; 
and they vindicated the statute of 1837, in favor of personal 
liberty, from the construction given to it by the Counsel for 
the Government, which would narrow the sphere of its oper- 
ation, and deprive it of much of its usefulness. The Legisla- 
ture which passed it, intended that it should be an efficient 
remedy, for every case of unlawful encroachment upon the 
right of personal liberty. The individual imprisoned might 
be an infant, incapable of understanding his rights, and una- 
ble to delegate authority. Or it might be, a married woman, 
who is legally disqualified from instituting a suit at law, is 



28 

suffering some great wrong, through deprivation of her lib- 
erty, at a distance from ^her husband and friends. Or, a 
maniac might be the sufferer. Or, as in the present case, 
a child brought up in ignorance, and imperfectly discern- 
ing her rights, and altogether ignorant of the remedy, might 
be enduring oppression and bondage. In all such cases the 
provisions of the Statute would be nugatory, if authority 
must be given by the person in duress, before the writ can 
be instituted. Scarcely more effectual would they be for 
the protection of one who was under no such disqualifica- 
tion. The injury itself would take away the remedy pro- 
vided for it. The confinement would deprive the prisoner 
of the means and opportunity of furnishing the necessary 
authority. 

So far from admitting the construction contended for, in 
support of this prosecution, which would render futile a 
most important and beneficial law, the counsel for the De- 
fendants contend, that it should have such broad operation, 
that the remedy it held out should meet any possible case 
of unlawful infringement of personal liberty. If the cry 
for succor should now be heard from yonder house, and 
the belief be reasonably had that some human being is 
there unlawfully deprived of freedom, although that voice 
of distress should proceed from some unknown person, from 
the stranger from the "furthest pole," it would be the 
right of any man who should hear it to institute the writ of 
personal replevin, and to bring the prisoner and him by 
whom he was restrained into a Court of Justice, where the 
cause of the imprisonment could be investigated, and the 
wrong, if any had been committed, be redressed. Upon 
any other construction, the Statute, instead of being a pro- 
tection to men's rights, would be a trap and a snare. In sup- 
port of his views, the Counsel for the Defendants read and 
commented upon several sections of the Statute referred to. 

The first section provides that if any person is unlawful- 
ly imprisoned, restrained of liberty or held in duress, such 
person shall be entitled, of right, to the writ of personal 
replevin. 

That no abuse be made of the law, the 4th and 5th Sec- 
tions require a bond to be given, with sufficient sureties, for 
the payment of any damages which the defendant may sus- 
tain by reason of the institution of the suit. 

The 15th section authorises any person in behalf of an- 



29 

other to sue out the writ and prosecute the suit to final 
judgment, without any express power from the person res- 
trained of his liberty. 

The 16th section makes provision for the commence- 
ment of the suit WHERE THE NAME OF THE 
PERSON RESTRAINED IS UNKNOWN OR UNCER- 
TAIN. 

The objection that no adequate provision was made by the 
Statute for costs to which, under certain circumstances, the 
plaintiff whose name is used might be subjected, was met 
by a reference to the provision therein made, for security to 
the plaintiff as well as the defendant, for costs which 
might be sustained. It is further urged by the defendant's 
counsel that objections arising from an omission to provide 
fully for any injury which might possibly result from the 
use of the process, in any case which could be suffered to 
arise, could not avail to defeat the plain enactments of a 
law. The Legislature of 1837, which passed the law, es- 
tablished a great principle, to wit, the right of a trial by jury 
in cases affecting personal liberty, and it gave ample means 
for enforcing the right. It may be, as is often the case, that 
experience may show the necessity for subsequent Legisla- 
tion to make perfect the details of the law. 

The Court decided that no authority to commence the 
suit need be given by the person in duress, that the Statute 
itself was sufficient authority. The objection was therefore 
overruled, and the evidence was admitted. 



Note. The writ of personal replevin referred to in this trial was duly 
entered in Court at the December term of the Common Pleas, and stood 
on the Docket, Anne vs. Olivia Eames. The defendant appeared by her 
attorney, but afterwards was defaulted by consent, and judgment for nomi- 
nal damages (being all that was claimed,) and the costs of Court, was ren- 
dered against her. This was proved on trial, but, by mistake, was not in- 
serted in its proper place in this report 

The reader will also observe, that in the testimony of Geo. Putnam and 
Thomas Randall, on pages 16 and 17, the name of Mr. Stratton was incor- 
rectly introduced instead of that of Mr. Sherman. 



30 



AN ACT TO RESTORE THE TRIAL BY JURY, ON QUES- 
TIONS OP PERSONAL FREEDOM. 

Sect. 1. If any person is imprisoned, restrained of his liberty, or held 
in duress, unless it be in the custody of some public officer of the law, by 
force of a lawful warrant or other process, civil or criminal, issued by a 
court of competent jurisdiction, he shall be entitled, as of right, to the 
writ of personal replevin, and to be thereby delivered in the manner 
hereinafter provided. 

Sect. 2. The writ shall be issued from and returnable to the court of 
common pleas, for the county in which the plaintiff is confined, and shall 
be issued fourteen days at least before the return day thereof. 

Sect. 3. It shall be directed to the sheriff of the county, or his depu- 
ty, or to any of the coroners thereof, and shall be served by either to 
whom it shall be delivered, without delay. 

Sect. 4. The said writ shall be in the form following, viz. 

Commonwealth of Massachusetts. 
ss. To the sheriff of our county of or his deputy, or either of 

(l. s.) the coroners thereof, Greeting. 

We command you, that justly and without delay, you cause to be re- 
plevied C. D. who (as it is said) is taken and detained at , within 

our said county, by the duress of G. H., that he the said C. D. mav appear 

at our court of common pleas, next to beholden at , within our 

county aforesaid ; then and there in our said court to demand right and 
justice against the said G. H. for the duress and imprisonment aforesaid, 
and to prosecute his replevin as the law directs : 

Provided, the said C. D. shall before his deliverance, give bond to the 
said G. H., in such sum as you shall judge reasonable, and with two 
sureties at the least, having sufficient within your county, with condition 
to appear at our said court to prosecute his replevin against the said G. 
H., and to have his body there ready to be redelivered, if thereto ordered 
by the court ; and to pay all such damages and costs as shall be then and 
there awarded against him . Then, and not otherwise, are you to deliver 
him. And if the said C. D. be by you delivered at any day before the sit- 
ting of our said court, you are to summon the said G. H. by serving him 
with an attested copy of this writ, that he may appear at our said court to 
answer to the said C. D. 

Witness, L. S. Esq. at B — , the — day of — in the year — . A .B. clerk. 

Sect. 5. No person shall be delivered from his imprisonment or res- 
traint, by force of such writ, until he shall give bond in the manner ex- 
pressed in the preceding section; and the bond shall be returned with the 
writ, in like manner as a bail bond is returned, and shall be left in the 
clerk's office, to be delivered to the defendant when he shall demand it. 

Sect. 6. The officer, who serves the writ, shall be answerable for the 
insufficiency of the sureties in such bond, in like manner as he is answer- 
able for taking insufficient bail in a civil action. 

Sect. 7. If the plaintiff shall maintain his action, and shall make it ap- 
pear that he was unlawfully imprisoned or restrained, he shall be dischar- 
ged, and shall recover his costs of suit against the defendant, as well as 
damages for the said imprisonment and detention. 



31 

Sect. 8- If the plaintiff shall not maintain his action, the defendant 
shall have judgment for his costs of suit, and also for such damages, if any. 
as he shall have sustained by reason of the replevin. 

Sect. 9. If it shall appear that the defendant is bail for the plaintiff, 
or is entitled to the custody of the plaintiff, as his child, ward, servant, ap- 
prentice or otherwise, he shall have judgment for a redelivery of the bodv 
of the plaintiff, to be held and disposed of according to law. 

Sect. 10. If it shall appear, from the return of the writ of personal 
replevin, that the defendant has secreted or conveyed away the plaintiff's 
body, so that the officer cannot deliver him, the court shall, on motion, is- 
sue a capias to take the defendant's body, and him safely keep, so that he 
may be had at the then next term of the court, to traverse the return of the 
said writ of personal replevin ; but the defendant may give, and the offi- 
cer serving the same shall receive bail, as in civil case, for his appearance 
as aforesaid, in such sum as the officer may judge reasonable. 

Sect. 11. At the term at which the capias is returned, the defendant 
may .deny, by plea, the return on the writ of replevin, and if it shall appear, 
on the trial thereof, that he is not guilty of secreting or conveying away 
the plaintiff, as set forth in the return, he shall be discharged and recover 
his costs. 

Sect. 12. If the defendant shall not traverse the said return as 
aforesaid, or if, upon the said traverse, the issue, on trial, shall be found 
against him, then an alias writ of capias shall be issued against him, and 
he shall thereupon be committed to the common jail, there to remain in 
close custody until he shall produce the body of the plaintiff, or prove 
him to be dead ; and if the defendant shall suggest such death at any 
time after committal as aforesaid, then the court shall impannel a jury to 
try the fact, at the expense of the defendant ; and if the death be proved, 
the defendant shall be discharged. 

Sect. 13. If, at any time after such return of secretion and convey- 
ing away as aforesaid, the defendant shall produce the body of the plain- 
tiff in the court to which the writ of personal replevin was returned, or in 
which the suit is pending, the court shall deliver the plaintiff from res- 
traint, upon his giving bond agreeably to the condition of the writ of per- 
sonal replevin ; and for want of such bond the plaintiff shall be commit- 
ted, to abide the judgment on the replevin; and in either case the suit 
shall be proceeded in, as if the plaintiff had been delivered on the writ of 
personal replevin. 

Sect. 14. Either party may appeal from any judgment upon either of 
the matters aforesaid to the supreme judicial court, as in common civil 
actions ; and in case of an appeal from the judgments which may be ren- 
dered under the writs of capias aforesaid, the whole case shall be car- 
ried up to the supreme judicial court and be there disposed of, as it 
ought to have been in the court of common pleas, if there had been no 
appeal. 

Sect. 15. The writ of personal replevin maybe sued out by any per- 
son for and in behalf of the plaintiff, and may be prosecuted to final judg- 
ment, without any express power for that purpose : provided, that the per- 
son so appearing for the plaintiff shall, at any time during the pendency of 
the suit, when required by the court, give security in such manner as the 
court shall direct, for the payment of all damages and costs that shall be 
awarded against the plaintiff. 

Sect. 16. If the name of the defendant, or the person to be deliver- 
ed, be unknown or uncertain, then in any writ, proceeding, or process 
under this act, they may respectively be described and proceeded with,. 



32 

as is prescribed in the sixth and seventh sections of the one hundred and 
eleventh chapter of the Revised Statutes, in the writ of habeas cor- 
pus. 

Sect. 17. The thirty eighth section of the one hundredfand eleventh 
chapter of the Revised Statutes, is hereby repealed. [ April 19, 1837.] 



THE INDICTMENT. 
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS. 

Worcester, ss. At a Court of Common Pleas, begun and holden at 
Worcester, within and for the County of Worcester, on the fourth Mon- 
day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred 
and thirty-eight : 

The Jurors for the Commonwealth aforesaid, on their oath present, 
That Samuel Stratton, Samuel Foster, James E. Cheney, and Farnum 
White, junior, all of Holden, in the County of Worcester, unlawfully and 
wrongfully devising and intending to deprive one Olivia Eames of the 
voluntary service and aid of a certain colored female, named Anne, r and 
to remove the said Anne from the service, care and employment of the said 
Olivia, into places wholly unknown to said Anne, and without her consent, 
at Holden aforesaid, in the County aforesaid, on the thirteenth day of 
September now last past, did, unlawfully and wrongfully, combine, con- 
spire, confederate, and agree together, wrongfully and unlawfully to de- 
prive the said Olivia of the said voluntary aid and service of said Anne, 
andjtojemove the said Anne from the service and employment of said 
Olivia, into places wholly unknown to said Anne, without her consent : 
and ,then and there, in pursuance of said conspiracy, combination, and 
agreement, did unlawfully and without the knowledge or consent of said 
Anne, cause to be sued out in due form of law, a certain Writ of Personal 
Replevin in behalf of said Anne, wherein it was alleged that said Anne 
was restrained and impriboned by the duress of the said Olivia, which 
Writ was made returnable to the Court of Common Pleas next to be hold- 
en at Worcester, within and for the County of Worcester, on the first 
Monday of December next : and then and there the same Writ did un- 
lawfully and wrongfully put into the hands of Warner Hinds, without the 
knowledge or consent of said Anne, to be duly served and executed : and 
the said Stratton, Cheney, Foster, and White, then and there unlawfully 
and wrongfully did cause and procure the said Hinds, under color and 
pretence of making service of said Writ of Personal Replevin in behalf 
of said Anne, to take the body of the said Anne, by force and violence, 
without her consent therefor first had and obtained, from the said volun- 
tary service, employment, and care of the said Olivia, and did then and 
there unlawfully and wrongfully aid and assist the said Hinds in taking 
the body of said Anne in manner aforesaid: and then and there unlaw- 
fully and wrongfully, in manner aforesaid, did deprive said Olivia of said 
voluntary aid and service of said Anne, and did carry and remove the 
said Anne into places theretofore to the said Anne wholly unknown : and 
other wrongs the said Foster, Stratton, Cheney, and White, then and 
there did, in abuse of the process of law provided for the security of 
personal freedom, and against the peace of the Commonwealth aforesaid, 
A true Bill. 

SAMUEL DAMAN, Foreman. 
PLINY MERRICK, Dist. Attorney. 



