r6tjit 



SERMONS, 



PREACHED IN THE CHAPEL 



tOF THE 



ITESTERI^ RESERVE COLIiEC^E, 



On LorcTsDays, No\^mber 1 8th and 25th, and December Snd and 9th, I83S. 



My Beriah Cfreen^ 

Professor cf Sacred Literature, in the CoUeg*. 



CLEVELAND^ 

Printed at the Office of the Herald. 

1833. 



PREFACE;. 

BURING the first term of the present year, a discussion arose in the regular., 
^isputationsof the college, on the points which, separate the patrons of the A- 
merican Colonization Society from the.advocates of immediate emancipation. In 
the. course of the discussion, I was not a little alarmed, not to say shocked with 
the ground, which was assumed to maintain the doctrines and defend the designs 
of this society. Expediency in opposition to naked rectitude, was plead for, as a 
basis, to which plans and exertions in behalf of the colored Americans should be 
adjusted. Apologies were made for the present race of slave-holders, under pre- 
tence that the evils beneath which they are placed, and from Vv^hich, it is said, 
they long to break away, ivere entailed vpon tJiem. But it was especially insisted 
on, that against the colored American, a. prejudice, arising from his complexion, 
v/as universally cherished, as effective and invincible, as a constitutional tendency, 
vv'hich must forever exclude him from the affectionaie regard, and withhold from 
him the rights and privileges, of liis white neighbors. Those who claimed to 
be free from this prejudice, it was alleged, could hardly be regarded as sincere. 
And yet confessedly affected v/ith this deep rooted prejudice — nay, yielding to 
its giant power, and adapting their plans to the satisfying of its exorbitant de- 
mands, the Colonization Society, it was contended, ought to have the credit of' 
forming a just estimation of the character and prospeqts of Africo- Americans, 
and of devising wise and happy methods for elevating their condition, and pro- 
moting their interests! Positions like these, and taken for any purpose, I could 
not, as a preacher of the gospel, regard with indifference. They appeared to me 
to be elementary errors, subversive of the first principles of Christian truth. Of- 
ficial fidelity., especially, an affectionate regard for the highest interests of my 
beloved charge seemed to me to demand most serious and earnest endeavors to 
«xpose the noxious tendencies and coimteract the deadly influence, of such doc- 
trines as I have jast alluded to. Enough has now been said, to explain, briefly 
and generally, the immediate occasion of the follovidng discourses. 

No sooner had I commenced the course of instruction, given in the following . 
pages, than marked and painful indications were apparent, that some of my hear- , 
€rs were deeply displeased. The various forms in which this displeasure broke 
eut^ I ought not, m this place, to be expected fully to describe. I was urged to 
<desist immediately; and threatened with the loss of a part of my audience, if 1 
m. net g-iv® some assnrancp, that! would forthwith abandon the position I haiij 



taken. Any such assurance, I clearly saw and deeply felt, could be nothing less 
than treason to my Lord— an abandonment of the post, to which His authority 
had called me. To ask it, I could not but regard as arrogance— arrogance, which 
would thrust a man upon the throne of God— arrrogance which always grows 
and thrives as it is yielded to and humored. As I proceeded with the trains of 
thought, now presented to th^ public, I four^d myself charged with the crime of 
refusing to preach the gospel, and offering philosophy and politics in the place 
of its healthful doctrines! Souls, just ready to enter the kingdom of Heaven, I 
iad rudely beaten back! Upon the hearts of the disciples of the Saviour, I had 
inflicted wounds, deep and numerous!. 

These charges, I have had occasion to know, were not confined to my proper 
hearers. From different points of the Western Reserve, the alarm has travelled 
forth, that the college-pulpit has been desecrated— has been made on the holy 
Sabbath a place for philosophical discussion and political wrangling. Nay, I 
have too much reason to believe, that' measures were devised and urged, by 
some, who seemed to think they ought to have the control of the college-pulpit,, 
which, had they not been unexpectedly defeated by the Saviour's hand, would have 
constrained me, uNquESTioNED and unheard, to defile myconscienceorleavemy 
station. 

The trains of thought, now spread out beneath the public eye, w^ere notarran-, 
ged for the press. But since things have taken the turn, which I have hinted at, 
I feel constrained to print what I have preached. On the whole, I rejoice in the 
necessity of giving a more extended circulation than my pulpit would insure, to 
the doctrines and appeals, which these, discourses are designed to illustrate and 

enforce. 

To some minds, the. inquiry may net be wholly devoid of interest: are tjiese 
the same sermons, as were delivered from the pulpit? In preparing my discour- 
ses for delivery, it is my method to give the principal thought, tlie main argu- 
ments and the inferences, as much definiteness and precision, as I am able. 
These I carefully commit to paiper. The whole train of thought, moreover, in- 
cluding the illustrations, minor arguments, images, quotations, and allusions, I 
commonly carry through ray mind, in private study. Of these, my notes pre- 
serve hints, more or less copious. In public speaking, I often expand my thoughts 
more fully, than in the effort of preparation. If a new argument is suggested 
to me, or a new image arises to my view, I commonly welcome and employ it. 
In preparing them for the press, I liave not, I believe, subjected these discourses 
to any modification, whicli in any way, essentially affects their character. All 
the features which I knew to be offensive to any of my hearers, I have carefully 
preserved. This remark I would extend to allusions and figures of speech. In 
one case, I have changed the origin of an illustration from Egyptian to other 
ground. My reason for doing so, will be indicated in a note. In another case,. 



I have adde& an illustration, derived tVom the subject of slave-holding. In pass- 
ing Irom tlie pulpit to the press, the sj)irit of the t^errnons will be found to have 
lost none of its repiehensivebearinor on the crime of holding- men in involuntary 
servitude. 

The notes, which I have added, will show clearly enough, whether I have 
been contending with a "man of straw.- ' These, as they made no part of the 
discourses, as delivered to my charge, could, of course, have had nothing to do 
with the offence v;hich has been taken. They prove with heart-breaking pow- 
er and clearness^ that the positions assumed by apart of my hearers, on the sub- 
ject of slavery, which occasioned these discourses, are not peculiar to rhem. 
The plague has already spread extensively and destructively. May the Ged of 
truth and rectitude stay its frightful ravages! 

To the candid and prayerful examination of the public in general, and of my 
beloved charge in particular, I affectionately ccmmend the following pages. 
Truth, sustained by the authority of God, and illustrated by the experience of 
men, need not shrink from the severest scrutiny. To the great Patron of truth 
the Spirit oj all grace, I hun^bly commit this and every effort, to advance the 
Interests of His cause, and subserve the glory of His Name. 

BERIAH GREEN. 
Western Reserve Collesfe, February, 1833. 



HAVING listened v.'itli fixed attention to the following discourses of Frofeg- . 
Bcr Green, in their original cleliveiy, we are able to state that, as now presented 
to the public, they are, in every important thought and expression, the, same. — 
The sentiments embodied in these discourses, we believe to be scriptura]. The 
exhibition of them in the colIege-chapel, at the time, and in the circumstances 
attending that exhibition, we believe to have been not only warranted, but impe- 
riously demanded, by a just regard to pastoral fidelity. We earnestly commend 
the discourses to the examination of Christians, and of our feliovz-citizens gener- 
ally. Our prayer is, that they m.ay awaken extensively the spirit of inquir}^, in 
reference toj the principles on which, and the measures by which, v/e should seok. 
tb© salvation of our oppressed colored brethren. 

CHARLES B. STORRS, 
ELIZUR WRIGHT, J?.. 
Iladson, February, 1E5J. 



SERMON I. 

Jeremiah, 15: 19. Therefore thus saith the Lord, If thou return, then -^vill I 
-bnna- theo ao-am, and thou shall stand before me ; and if thou take forth the 
precTous fronrthe vile, thou shalt be as my mouth; let them return unto thee ; 
but return not thou unto them. 

In this language, we have a clear intimation of the posture, vs^hich Jeremiah 
had taken, before this aracle of Jehovah fell upon his ear and reached his heart. 
Disheartened with ill success, he had abandoned his sacred work. He with- 
drew from the ungrateful multitude. " He sat alone ; " and gave himself up to 
deep despondency, while bitter complaints fell from his lips. Even his confi- 
dence m God began to forsake him. In the anguish of his spirit, he came near 
to reproaching* Jehovah for want of fidelity in fulfilling His engagements. 
Thus affected, '-'the word of the Lord" calmed his agitated bosom and silen- 
ced his complaining tongue. " If thou return"— cease from despondency and 
com.plaint, and enga°ge with cheerfulness, and zeal, and hope in thine appropri- 
ate work— ''then will I bring thee again"— restore thee to the high responsi- 
bilities and sacred privileges of the prophetic office,— "and thou shalt stand be- 
fore me"— be my minister. "And if thou take forth the precious from the vile" 
—if in thy sacred work, thou shalt accurately and clearly discriminate between 
good men and bad men— between right and wrong,— "thou shalt be as my 
mouth"— speak with divine authority ; "let them return to thee"— their con- 
sciences shall bear witness to the truth and weight of thine instructions, and 
to the integrity and benevolence of thy character ; "but return not thou unto 
them''— thou shalt not adopt their principles, cherish their spirit, pursue the 
objects, to which they are devoted. 

The text, thus explained, furnishes ground for the following statement, which 
it is the object of this discourse to illustrate and apply: Those philanthropists^ 
who adjiist their exertions to remove moral evils— in other ivords, to reform men, to 
an accurate discrimination heiween right and wrong, have good reasons to expect 
success. 

The doctrine is sometimes advanced in elevated places and on high authori- 
ty, that it is not wise, to act upon the conclusions, to which the most compact 
.train of sound metaphysical argument would conduct us. Intelhgent men, we 

* See verse 18 . 



Vre told, keep their eyes open upon the w-ide distinction between what is *right 
and what is practicable. Your views may, indeed, be in the strictest accord- 
ance with truth. But in your exertions to do good, beware of acting on a plan, 
which has nothing better to recommend it than its fiill conformity to sound rea* 
soning and correct views. Skillful couilselloTs will assure you, that by at- 
tempting too much, you v/iil fail to accomplish the little, which might otherwise 
be practicable. 

In opposition to such views, the truth of the position, which lies at the foun- 
ilation of this discourse may be sustained ; 

I. By a reference to facU. 

IndilSerent ages of the world, men have stood up, who regarded the iniquity, 
which prevailed around them with deep abhorrence. Their heart-felt concern 
^or the glory of God, and the welfare of the human family, constrained them to 
attempt something to succor and save a bleeding world. They have been hon- 
ored with the reputation of reformers. But for these strong props, the world 
would have fallen long ago into a heap of ruins. — At the head of these stood 
Moses, and especially, and far above them all, Jesus Christ. Principles, they 
laid down, and precepts, they published, which covered the whole ground of hu- 
man relations and human interests. These interests w^ere to be defended and 
these relations sustained, by enforcing those precepts and maintaining those 
principles, in cases endlessly varied and indefinitely multiplied. To all these 
cases, they did not themselves attempt, specifically and particularly, to apply 
tlieir own principles and precepts. This work was left, in part, to be accom- 
plished by their co-adjutors and successors. f Pious kings and holy prophets 

*As a specimen of the language, which is often heard on this subject, take the following 
extract from the report of a select committee of the Ohio Legislature, in the winter of 18324 
After admitting that the obstacle? to be encountered in "so elevating the moral and social con- 
dition of the blacks in Ohio, that thej would be received into society on terms of equality, 
and would by common consent be admitted to a participation of political privileges," lay in 
•"the stronsc and unconquerable feeling of the society, in which we live," and in the "situation 
of the enslaved Africans in a larire portion of this republic," the committee, through Mr. 
Worthington, proceed to say : " Whether this feeling be ri^ht or ivrong, reasonable or unreu' 
sonable At is not the province of this eommittce to inquire ; that is a question for the abstract 
philosopher and metaphysiciaji''! * * * * ''The dutij of the committee, then is confin- 
ed to what ispracticabh inlegislation, and conducive to the general jvelfare of the communi' 
/}/•" We conamend the whole report to the careful attention of all who wish to know, what 
shallow thinking, and pitiful quibbling, and unprincipled measures may wear the guise and 
assume the name, of political wisdom. A white tnaii, who can read it without blushing for his 
own color, may well be suspected of having already done violence to his conscience. In pro- 
moting the welfare of the community, to which he belongs, a legislator, forsooth, has nothing 
to do with the right or the wrong of the general feeling, to which he may adjust his measures! 
Aiasl- we have already had too much such wise legislation ! "Practicable," indeed it may be ; 
just as it is practicable for bad men in high places to stab the vitals of their country I 

jScc Observer and Telegraph, for Feb. 2,1832. 

+\Vhv do the advocates of the American Colonization Society seek the proofs and analo- 
gifi', W\' which thev trvto defend the deriigna of that iiistifution amidst the rubbish of the dark 



carried forward the work, beffun by the Hebrew le^^islator, of expanding and ap- 
plying the maxims and injunctions of the Mosaic institutions. To the faithful 
hands of apostles, and reformers, and missionaries, moreover, was committed 
in many instances, the delig-hUal and honorable work of fully expounding 
ant specifically applying the peculiarities of the Gospel. 

Let us now mark some of the poinls, in which difierent refcr?ners have labor- 
ed to remove moral evils, wh'ch prevailed around them. — Duri:ig their residence 
in Egypt, the Hebrews, it seems, became addicted to idolatry. Moved and gov- 
erned by divine authority, Moses undertook to subject them to the influence of 
a pure theocrccy. The foundation, on which he rested his proceedings, de- 
serves particular attention. He adjusted his plans and conformed his move- 
ments to an accurate discrimination betv\'esn right and vrrong. InfhoiU making 
the least aHoiortnce for their prejudices, he required them at once and forever to re- 
nounce idjlatry. Whatever form it might assume, and under whatever com- 
plexion it might appear, they were required to regard it with unm.ingled abhor- 
rence and stern determined opposition. If they yielded t© the force of old preju- 
dices and former habits, the indulgence was dearly purchased. To worship the 
cherished objects, which they had once reverenced, was a capital offence. And 
he was blessed of Goa and honored hymen, who threw the first stone! Who 
will venture to affirm, that Moses attemipted too much, by adjusting Ms economy 
to views strictly correct, of the relations, which the Hebrews sustained to Jeho- 

ages and dn:k rrgion;? fnsteac: of discuss:!)^ the merits of this societ)^ amidst the light, 
which the piiiifiplepof the Bible, iire from age to age with ever increasing effulgence pouring 
upon the rekition.* and duties ol (he liuaian family, diey insist upon carrying forward their 
investigation?, drawing liitir conclusions, and aiianging their plans Emidstthe obscurity, and 
mist, and gljoiis of'Mhe linj^s of former "ignorance." Whence this love of darkness'? 
"Who ever .: ^iibied," (-ries Rev. Mr. Danforlli. General agent for the American Colonization 
Society, (s-e 5th letter) "the cri'ii:n:\lity of divoree fjr slight causes? Yet Moses snfferedM 
for thfc harJnuss ofti'.eir hearts! ' \ reviewer in the Christian Spectator (1830, p.47ii) trans- 
ports < s t ) the feet r,t the emp?nr of China, the autocrat cf Russia and the saltan of Turkey 
to fin! an-il >:2;ies to jiistifv • d. :jic.>t;;- slavej !" 

How are the southern siave-h;/ldcis and men-stealers— who are as nearly akin to each other 
ss twin hrMhers— t.) be enli-htened respecting- the ob!ig-atioiis, which the gospel impoFts oq 
then? D;-CH~,i)n tiev wi I n )t en hjic-. Tlie iiiversiiU-r/ of their apjlogisls, is "hush, hush." 
Iveepsilence, You will exasperate our dear friends at "the souih. Better 1< t our colored 
brethren perish, than disturb the beloved prejudices of their nsasters. Why, in 1820. Jeremi- 
ah Kvai-ts" wrote an editorial as tide in the Panoplist, occasioned by th<; "Missouri Question" — 
a question, the di<=cussion of vvhich in the national legislatr.s brought thousands of good men 
to their knees at the meicvse:>.t, and the decision cf" which clothed the land with mourning— 
which gave q-.-f-.at offence 'to the southern shve-holders. he had the mortification ofl_ear:> 
ing. that Li-; ''•SpsculuHo.ii hacins; special refrence to a law (f Virginia, were the occasion of 
arresfina; ih" walls ofachurch, built by free negroes, in Cliarieston. S. C,! See Fan. ]820,pp. 
432,491.^ T\o wonder the magnanimous apologistsof such ' hard-hearted" men should think 
them well disposed nf. when brought into'close itompanionship with the "sultan of Turkey," 
and the*'autor,rat of Russia." We have no ofijection to ?uch a classification. Whether toe 
ouiflit.and God wi".. "wink at" the wilful ignorance, and stubborn prejudice, and hoary 
guilt of those, *"who build their houses by unrighteousness and their chambers by wrongs 
who use their neighbor' s service without wajes, and^ivehimnot for his work," is a very 
different poiut. 

* Jeremiah, XJCII. 13. 
B 



10 

■y&hl His institutions were based on the purest metaphysics; but were they not 
as practical as they were philosophical and divine? They were full of the most 
powerful and salutci-y tendencies. While in the face of popular prejudice and 
iyeneral habiti, they vindicated the rights of God, they were adapted to promote 
in the most effectual manner and in the highest degreee the interests ot mankind. 
And glorious results crowned the exertions of the great Hebrew lawgiver. 

The Jews, when the Apostle Paul became a Christian minister, cherished 
against the Gentiles a prejudice a? deeply rooted as it was injurious. 
This prejudice formed a cord of caste fearfully . 'rcrg-- T": had been maintained 
for ao'es. It was strengthened and fortified by tome of the most vigorous sen- 
timents of the depraved heart. It was nourished by pride and patriotism. It 
was sanctified by the reli'gious views, which they held. It moved every -fibre 
of their hearts, and modified every element of their character. When any of 
the Jews joined the Christian standard, this prejudice still clung to them, with a 
force and tenacity worthy of a constitutional tendency. They were disposed to 
hold their Gentile brethren at arm's-end, and to extort from them a respectful 
acknowledgement of Jewish, superiority. So powerful was this feeling, 
that on some occasions, it threatened to sweep away the strongest barriers 
which opposed its progress.* Apostles allowed them.selves to be sv/ayed by its 
influence. This cord of caste Paul regarded v/ith stern abhorrence and unyield- 

..ing opposition. It was adapted to check the progress of Christianity, as the 
religion of man — of the world. It was fitted to break the happiest community, 
which it might in vE:de, into parties; and to bring brethren into harsh collision 
and fierce confict with each other. It was a rope twisted in Hell, and fitted to 
strangle the church. In his efforts to remove this moral evil, mark th€ course 
which Paul pursued. The methods which he took were solicitously, accuratel}^ 
fully adjusted to the natural relations, which all men sustain to each other. — 
When, in tliis matter, he saw the rights of his Gentile brethren invaded, he 
promptly stood up in their defence. Whoever the aggressor might be, a pov/er- 

•ful hand crippled him. Even Peter, when he bent before the gust of popular 
prejudice, was publicly exposed and sternly rebuked by the iutrepid apostle 
to the GenUeSc And what advocate of human rights has the world ever seen, 
who was more successful in his exertions to reform mankind? 

One of the most formidable obstacles, which the modern Christian missionary 
has to encounter, is found in the same prejudice, a prejudice which breaks up large 
communities into petty clans, and confines their kind regards to the circle to which 
they belong. The vrall, which separo.tes these casts from each other, genera- 
tion afler generation, has for ages been laboring, with ever-watchful zeal and 
untiring industry, to laise to a higher point and fortify with increased strength. 

*Gal. II. 14. 



n 

It has been pronounced a thousand times an impregnable barrier. But the mis- 
sionary of the cross dares to believe that the weapons of his warfare are mighty 
through God, to the destruction of every Ltrcng hold. He sees in the prejudice 
which divides men into various clans, pride and selfishness in their foulest forms. 
He sees in it an invasion of the dearest rights of mankind. While they hate 
each other, he knov/s they cannot unite in adoration at the feet of their common 
Lord — cannot nov/, can^iot ever mingle their hearts in the song of redemption. 
Tliis prejudice, therefore he regards with unrelenting hostility. Under every 
form he resists it. While he pursues it, (xtciviivcdkn is his avowed object. 
Accurate and comprehensive views of human relations and human rights are 
the foundation of his plans; the standard, to w^hich his exertions are carefully 
adjusted and fully conformed. The Bramin and the Sooder must consent to 
sit at a common table and to greet each other with fraternal love, before they 
can be admitted to a place in tY^e family of Jesus. And the success which has 
rewarded the missionary enterprise, has been highly encouraging. : 

What good Iiave iliey done who. in their professed exertions to reform man- 
kind, have humored their wicked prejudices? Who was brought to repentence 
by the lectures of the ancient philosopher'? While he encouraged the beso-tted 
multitude to cling to their idols, what impression did his m.ore elevated viev/s of 
the divinity make upon their minds? Those scenes of obscenity and crueltj^, in 
which they freely mingled at the Pagan temples, and which he durst not expose 
and denounce, must immediately and effectually blot from their memories the 
lessons of v/isdom, which he might have taught. The supple Jesuit, too; what 
human heart was ever yet cheated out of its cherished lusts by his boasted arts? 
When was the god of this world bereaved of a single subject by the intrigue and 
cunning of his professed opposers? Jesuitical sophistry has sometimes brought 
men to exchange one set of idols for another; to alter the modes and complex- 
ion of their crimes; but never, heartily to renounce a single sin or sincerely 
practice a single virtue. The prejudices, which it has humored, it has left to 
prey upon the heart, they had infested. It has left men as dead in sin and as ; 
much exposed to Hell, as it found them. 

II. The doctrine on which zve are dicelling, may he sustained ly a reference to the 
natural tendencies of things, 

i. Those, who adjust their exertions to reform mankind to an accurate dis- 
crimination between right and wrong, have a standard by which moral evil may 
be easily and certainly detected and exposed. Without such a standard, the task to . 
be attempted by the reformer, cannot be defined. Of the v.-crk before him he caa 
forin no just idea. His efforts, hov/ever well intended, and however strenuous, 
mu&t be at best random and fruitless. Nay, acting in the dark, he may injure 
the cause, he is anxious to promote. He may set up what is commonly called 



m 

dcpediency, as a standard to which his views of duty and his benevolent exertions 
shall be conformed. In what does this consist? In odiiisting our plans and 
movements to the drcumstaiices, in loMch ive may tkinJc ourselves placed. But our 
knowledge of our circumstances must be very limited — must be exceedingly 
vague and imperfect. To multiplied beings above us and around us, we sustain 
interesting relations. We belong to a system of things infijitely complicated 
and extensive. Of remote bearings and ultimate tendencies, how little can we 
know! A single action may give birth to stupendous events, wiiiehlie far beyond 
the limits of our vision. ¥/ith the little circle of objects wliich arc directly 
around us, ant acquaintance is slight and partial; what can v/c pretend to knov/ 
of the objects, to which we are related, v/hich are concealed in the dark recesses 
of eternity and immensity! Apart from the revealed will of God, what can we 
pretend to know about expediency? 

With our petty views of expediency; We proceed to create a standard. Be- 
fore we can adjust a plan or modify a movement by our standard, it can hardly 
fail to undergo some important change. The moment, our views of the objects 
around us, become more definite and comprehensive, our standard must be redu- 
ced to conformity with our increased knowledge. Every new ray of light, which 
falls upon our minds, may alter our rule of conduct. It is liable to constant^ 
everlasting variation* Before you can adjust your scales, the weights have 
changed their value! What is such a standard good for? It may deceive, per- 
plex, embarrass; ^a better end,- it Cannot subserve. 

In his efforts to remove mcral evils, on the ground of expediency, moreover, 
the reformer may have to encounter a multitude of standards. Among those, 
for whose benefit he labors, he will hardly find two, who have the same views 
of their interests and relations. Their notions of expediency will be as various 
as their views of the objects, they contemplate* Amidst a thousand various and 
clashing rules, to what substantial results can he hope himself to arrive or to 
conduct others? Who will be convinced by his reasoning, impelled by his argu- 
ments, c: moved by his appeals? What is true by his standard, may be false by 
another's; what is wrong by his standard, may be right by another's ; what, 
according to his standard, may be promotive of human happiness, may be preju- 
dicial to it, according to another's. Without a better standard, he cannot even 
bring men to recognize the evils, which he would persuade them to abandon ! 

A standard must be found, by which moral evil may be detected and exposed, 
or nothing can be done in the work of reformation. An angel's spear must be 
had, whose touch will reduce the toad to his proper shape, though it shonld start 
up a devil! Such a standard he has, who in his efforts to remove moral evil, 
makes an accurate discrimination between right and wrong, the basis of his plans 
and exertions. He has only to compare human conduct with Heaven's revealed 
V/ill— with the law of God, to ascertain its proper tendencies and natural bear- 



15 

mgs. In the light of this comparison, ho may easily illustrate its true complex- 
ion and just desert. The task to be performed lies fully in his view. To those* 
who are around him, he can exphin his design with definiteness and precision. 
The force of his arguments and the point of his appeals, referable as they are 
to a standard, generally understood and commonly aolmowlcdgcc! — immutable 
as it is authoritative, will be perceived and felt. He may justly hope to convince 
the understanding, rouse the conscience, subdue the heart. 

£. The natural tendencies of the liuman constituiion greaihj favor ilieir designs, 
who in their efforts to remove moral evils, adjust their plans and exertions to an 
accurate discrimination between right and v/rong. — The m.axim, £o often re- 
peated and of such high authority with many, is based on truth and full of good 
sense; — Jfyj't" ivould bring him to renounce Ms errors and abandon his s?7is, you must 
take man as he is. Some shallow thinkers, I know, misunderstand and pervert it. 
In their mouths and Vv'ith their application, it is not only deprived of its proper 
weight and worth; but becomes a string of empty words, which would disgrace 
the lips of a fool. If we would take man as he is, they tell us, that we must 
adjust our exertions for his benefit to his moral character. We must not ofi^end 
his taste; we must not disturb his prejudices; we m.ust not rouse his passions: 
we must not alarm his fears ; we must not embarrass him in his chosen pursuits! 
We must evince a profound acquaintance with his nature, by curing him of pro- 
pensities, which have mmgled with his life-blood; by breaking up habits, which 
have twined themselves around his heart-strings by flattering and caressing him! 
We must deprive the starving lion of his prey by stroking his mane! Nay mere, 
we must draw the devil into ambush; and overcome him, not with the "sword of 
the spirit," but with cunning and intrigue — by humoring prejudice and flattering 
vice; — by weapons, forged in Hell, ages before the creation of mankind! But 
just so far, as we accommodate our designs and movements to human depravity, 
we lend our influence to make it more audacious. Under such a discipline, it 
must thrive fearfully; mocking the petty expedients and defying the puny checks, 
which in this way, we may think of opposing to its progress. To take man as 
he is, in any such sense, is to leave him uorse than you found him! 

In man, "as he is,'^ two things are united: the constituiion which God gave to 
him, and the character, which he has acquired. Both belong to the science of 
human nature. Both must be carefully studied, if we would form an acquaint- 
ance with mankind. Upon both, must the eye be kept onen, if we would make 
well-directed and successful efforts to correct the erring and reclaim the guilty. 
The original tendencies of the human consiiiutiGn must be brought to bear zvith all 
their natural force upon the cherished prejudices and beloved habits of man^s acquir- 
ed character. To purify and elevate the latter, our plans and exertions must be 
adjusted to the former. — The tendencies of the human constitution are directly 
opposed to the tendencies of man's acquired character;—- hence, the war, whicii 



14 

ravages and desolates the ansanetified bosom. Hence the fierce cen'flict, which 
lacerates rebellious spirits on the earth and in Hell! Every ray of light which 
falls upon the human understanding, makes its decisions against transgression 
of the law of God more peremptory and authoritative. Every just appeal, which 
is directed to the conacieuce av/akens it to new life, increased vigor, quick- 
ed sensibility. Every glance, which the eye of pity may cast upon the heart, 
makes it bleed and moan afresh. The frame work of human nature, formed on 
the model of the divine law, cannot fail, when enlightened by celestial truth, to 
employ its original susceptibilities and powers, in direct, determined, ceaseless 
opposition to iniquity. In his efforts to reform mankind, the philanthropist may 
bring all these povv^ers and susceptibilities into full and active subserviency to 
Ms design. He has only to adjnst his exertions to an accurate discrimination be- 
tween right and wrorg, and human nature, from the most retired lecesses ofthe 
Bouly will rusli'forth to his assistance. The impulse of its affections, the cheering 
of its voice, the vigor of its hand, it will promptly — nay, eagerly afford him. With 
arguments, drawn fresh froin the inspired volume, he may ply the vjnder standings 
If presented in a clear light, just form, and natural complexion, their force will 
be felt and acknowledged. The understanding will yield assent to the conclu- 
sions, which they naturally support. It mil utter its voice in unqualified, pointed, 
candemnation of wickedness, — The standard of obligation, setup m God's revealed 
wordj he may bring to bear upon the conscience. If fairly presented and faithful- 
ly applied, conscience will not fail to respond to it. The guilty bosom will be 
'ssTung with remorse — will be tortured with anticipated pangs of eternal damna- 
tion. He may direct his appeals to the ftear^— forlorn and desolate; bleeding 
at every pore with self-inflicted wounds. He may charge home upon it the guilt 
and folly of forsaking "the Fountain of living waters," and of repairing to empty 
broken cisterns, to quench its raging thirst; — of refusing to give its love and 
confidence to God— the Father, Saviour, Sanctifier, and fastening its affections 
and fixing its hopes on mere shining bubbles. To a perverse choice, to mispla- 
ced affections, to unwarranted reliances he may point, as the fountain of the 
dark, turbid, bitter waters, which overflow the soul. And to every syllable he 
niters, the oppressed, bereaved heart will mournfully respond: truth, truth- 
It will feel, that it is wedded to a monster, whose fascinations are deadly to pres- 
ent peace and future joy. It will gi^oanfor deliverance. Here are powerful aux- 
iliaries, in the very constitution of the transgressor, which in efforts to reclaim 
and save him, may be employed v/iththe happiest effect. Never was a sinner 
brought to repentance without such assistance. Never was such assistance 
welcomed and employed without substantial benefit. The philanthropist 
who adjusts his benevolent exertions to the immutable standard of obligation^ 
get up in the law of God, and he only, can availhimself of aid, so appropriate and 
powerfaL 



15 

5. So is this philanthropist sustained, and cliecred, and encourag'ed m his irft-*" 
iians by thep'ovidenee and jpromises of God. — In the arrangements of his provi- 
dence, God has connected with evil doing- fearful consequences. Even in this 
world, iniquity brings forth deadly fruit. Of this, the entire history of the hnrnan 
race is heart breaking proof and mournful illustration. Fix your eye, as a single 
point, which deserves attention; on the effects, which follovv the loatlisome cnme 
of slave-holding. What is domestic life, where this crime prevails? Its sweet- 
est charities and deirest joys are blighted. How can they live and fioarish 
amidst misrule and insubordination; suspicion and jealous}'; inflamed passions 
and incessant strife? The bonds of wedded life; how rudely are they broken ! 
The enslaved husband sees his wife daily exposed to the violence and pollution 
of unbridled lust and unchecked licentiousness! And Vv'hat confidence can his 
mistress repose in the fidelity of his master! It is no wonder that filial obedi- 
ence, and gratitude, and confidence refuse to live in the young heart, whose- 
wayward propensities and guilty passions are gratified and pampered. — How 
terrible, moreover, are the apprehensions which torture the bosom of the master, 
that the slave will one day rise and fearfully assert his rights ! That black». 
sinewy arm; — who can stand before it, when once lifted up in vengeance! And 
what sort of vengeance it may be expected to inflict, such scenes as clotiieU- 
Southampton in mourning teach him, with a definiteness and emphasis, which 
makes his whole frame tremble. EveTy occurrence, favorable to insurrection,, 
spreads terror and dismay far and wide. The most cruel and disgraceful meas- 
ures are resorted to, to prevent the anticipated horrors of servile war. The au- 
thority and skill of legislators, who cling to their vices, and "glory in their 
shame," are employed to conceal beyond the reach of discovery the key of knov«^- 
ledge. Fines and stripes; contempt, disgrace, and violence are tlie prescribed 
reward of the philanthropist, who should dare to conduct a ray of light to the 
bosom of the slave. The most anxious, and painful, and disgraceful efforts are 
employed to keep a knowledge of his rights from reaching his mind. The 
colored freedman is subject to gross contempt and shocking abuse, to depress 
him if possible, below the slaves; that a comparison of his state with theirs may 
not awaken them to discontent.* A philanthropist, at the distance of a thousand 
miles, single handed, decried, derided, opposed, cannot plead the cause of the 
oppressed negro, on the broad basis of eternal justice or eternal mercy, without 
making governors tremble in their chairs, and legislators quake in the senate- 
chamber. In the arrangements of providence, the slave-holder finds his mon- 
strous guilt in wresting away the rights of the helpless and unprotected, a deep 
source of wretchedness. He feels, that in a contest, with the victim of his cu- 
pidity and lust, f "not a single attribute of God can take side with him." In the 

•*S€e the debate on Mr. Brodnas's resolution, in the Virginia Legislature. fJeff^erson. 



16 

adjustments of His providence, he sees, that He has burnt into the front of his of- 
fending the brand of reprobation. The philanthropist, then, who would lend his 
influence to break the chain, which binds and cripples the scarred limbs of the 
slave, may well follow the leadings of God's holy providence. By this I mean, 
that he may well use his best endeavors, to open the eyes of the infatuated slave- 
holders on the tremendous perils, which are gathering around them. He may 
well address and thus augment their fears. He may well urge them, as '.hey val- 
ue their own safety, to remove their hand from the throat of their unoffending 
victims, whom desperation is awakening to courage and rousing to vengeance. 
He may well admonish them that they are digging their own graves; training 
up their own executioners. He may surround the tiger, while sucking the blood 
of his victim, with appalling fires! Around slave-holders, he may throw, in ter- 
rific array, these dangers, with which the providence of God is manifestly threat- 
ening them. He may thus hope, to contribute something to bring these worse 
than jPharaohs "to let the people go." And as these arrangements of Provi- 
dence are adjusted to an accurate discrimination between right and wrong, so, if 
he would secure their powerful influence in aid of the work of reformation, must 
his plans and exertions be. 

With such plans and exertions, he is fully entitled to the cheering influence of 
the divine promises. He may justly appropriate to himself the gracious assur- 
ance, by which the Saviour quickened the zeal, strengthened the faith, and ani- 
mated the hopes of his disciples in their labors of love, just as he v/entup to the 
mediatorial throne. In the declaration, "Lo, I am with you" in your efforts to 
spread the gospel, the Lord Jesus has furnished us with ground, equally broad 
and substantial, on which we may expect Kis aid, in every enterprize, which is 
adapted and designed to bring raenunder ilie controlling iiifluence of Chistianprin- 
cimes. Just in proportion as Christian principles extend their influence, the 
gospel is obeyed. In every instance, in which we labor to remove moral 
evils, under any form, we labor to extend the sway of Christian truth; and 
may expect the smiles of Jesus Christ. If iniquity in every form, is opposed to 
the progress -jf the gospel, then the Saviour, not only binds us by his authority, 
but also encourages us by his promises, to resist and exterminate iniquity in ev- 
ery form. And what is this but to lend the sanction of his authority and the 
support of his promises to those philanthropists, who, in their efforts to reform 
mankind, adjust their exertions to an accurate discrimination between right and 
wrong. 

Fix your eyes on the despondent prophet to whom the language of my text 
was addressed. His heart is cold, his hands are heavy. His official work he 
regards, as a hopeless enterprize. He stops in the midst of his course; and 

^Stuart's Hebrew Study, vol. II., p. 175. 



has not courng-e to take another step. But what sailh Jello^all? Up; cc.ise 
jour coijiplaints. Return to your appropriate labors. Be not afraid oi" \v icksd 
men. "Take forth the precious from the vile."' Your message shall be clothed 
with divine authority — your language shall have the weight of words fresh from 
the lips of God! Results, the most substantial and benificent, shall follow your 
exertions.— Those, who act upon the plan, prescribed to the prophet, are justly 
entitled to the promises, by which he was cheered. Jind the g7-and pecvUarili/ 
of this plan was a full and practical regard to the distinction between right and 
wrong. 

Tlie Saviour does not hesitate to employ the strongest language, to incite 
his people to undertake in extending the sway of Christian principles, enterprizes 
the most difficult and arduous. '^If ye abide in me and my words abide in you, 
ye shall ask what you will, and it shall be done unto you." Mark the condition, 
on which the assurance rests: — "if my words abide in you" — ^ifyou maintain 
cordially, fully, faithfully the principles of the gospel — adhere in your labors for 
the benefit of mankind to the broad distinction, jnade by the finger of God between 
right and wrong, there is no work of benevolence which you may not attempt 
with hope and courage. As among "the words" of the Saviour, he fully devel- 
opes and clearly illustrates the immutable principles of rectitude, so, to appro- 
priate to themselves the encouragement to well-doing, which the Saviour offers, 
his people must act upon these principles. — In proportion as they do so, he war- 
rants them to hope for success in their benevolent designs. It must not for a 
moment be forgotten, that the Holy Spirit is the patron of truth and righteous- 
ness. In proportion as our spirit and movements are conformed to the princi- 
ples of rectitude, may we expect his powerful assistance in our benevolent exer~ 
tions. With such a helper, not a moral evil disgraces and afflicts the earth, 
which we npay not hope to subdue and remove. 

Let those, then, ivho would by their exertiom reform and bless mankind, receive in- 
struction from the principle, expanded and sustained in this discourse. Let them 
bpware of depending on merely human authority for the maxims, on which their 
plans may be meddled and by which their movements ma,y be modified and con- 
troHed. All such maxims, they will find are alike shall ow% worthless, and mis- 
chievous. They are fitted to deceive, and mislead, and cripple the genuiije 
philanthropist. Let him look far above those ■'■ j3e% i?j«rs of expediency, which 

* In the New-York Observe — and in how many other papers I know not — Rev. Mr. Dart' 
forth, general agent for the American Colonization Society, makes the following statements: 
"Whatever appearance of force and conclusiveness there may be in acourseof re ^Won" rea- 
soning- on abstract principles (supposing the principles admitted on both sides) we must, after 
all, when the removal of great practical difficulties and the improvement of great masses of 
people are in question, come down to matters of fact and shape our measures so as to accom- 
plish as soon as possible, what appears tons the greatest good. The particular way is a mat- 
ter of some controversy. Some think we should exclude all expediency when treating the 
subject of slavery, and planting ourselves on the doctrine of eternal abstract right, do datjr 

G 



18 

superficial thinkers «o boldly jsropoge, so stoutly maintain. Hq may well tura 
away with jfixed aversion from their arrogance and folly. Blind leaders, they 
will certainly conduct their followers, blind as themselves, </to the ditch."— Let 
him dare to stand erect, and act upon the plan, which God has devised 
and proposed. Apply, I would s^y, faithfully apply the standard, which be has 
set up, in detecting and exposing the moral evils, which you are anxious to re- 
move. Keep your eyes fully open on the original tendencies of human nature. 
Enlist them, as you easily may, in the cause to which you are devoted- Upon 
the understandings, consciences, and hearts of wicked men, pour the piercingpight 
of heavenly truth. Hold before their faces the record of their crimes. Urge 
upon them the hateful nature and damning tendency of their cherished sins, till 
their understandings shall condemn thenl, and their consciences upbraid them, 
and their hearts sicken within them. Thus constrain them, in spite of their pas- 
sions and prejudices, to take the side ot truth and righteousness against them- 
selves; — to be co-workers with you to reform and save them. — Cherish, moreo- 
ver, a deep and lively confidence in the proinises of God. Lean on the arm 
which He stretches out to sustain and guide you. Maintain, with unyielding 
decision, the attitude, which he requires you to assume. While you "take forth 
the precious from the vile," cherish the expectation, that your words will strike 
the ears and souls of men, like the "voice of God." Look for the smiles of your 
Saviour, while you labor to extend and diffuse the influence of Christian princi- 
ples. Remember that the Holy Spirit is the unfailing and almighty patron of 

and risk conseqeunres," This position, the Rev. gentlemen attempts to prove is untenable by 
showing; that slave holding may besuftered on sdnie such grounds as make war and adultery 
tolerable! 

What have we here? "Admitted abstract principles'" held up in opposition "to matters of 
factr Will he tell us what such princiules are7 What are they but a comprehensive descrip- 
tion of whole classes ofvjell arranged fads? 

Whereisthe doctrine of "eternal abstract right" to be found, on which we may "plant 
ourselves?" Is it not. in the law of God? And does Mr. D. think of removing from their 
position, those who stand up here, on eternal rock— rock as stable as the throne of the Al- 
mighty ! 

Let him preach such doctrine to the southern ."slaves. Lethim teach these oppressed and out- 
raged men 'Ho accom.pUsh as soon as possible what appears to them the greatest good.' ^ And 
. when, if they should think it ''expedient" so to do, as possibly they might, they fire the houses 
and Cut the throats of their relentless tyrants, let him sneer at those who ''raise a hue and 
cry about rights, rights!"' Let him in his sacerdotal robes tell the negroes, as thev plunge 
headlong into the stream of blood, which at his bidding, they have set a flowing:' JVever 
mind the doctrine of abstract eternal right! Do, as fast as possible, what appears to yoi^h* 
greatest good . Heed not the words of those who cry " Wrongs, wrongs." Yoa have "gfiat 
practical difficulties to remove." "Great masses of people" are to be disposed of. You must 
"after all," that is said about rights, "come down to matters of fact" and shape your measures 
«o as to accomplish, as soon as possible, what appears to you the greatest good. Uo what you 
think^is eorpedient, and all shall be well! 

Were I a slave-holder, I should much prefer to have the most offensive "incendiary'" paper, 
• *=ver complained of at the south, "put into the heads" of my slaves, to seeing them digest such 
abominable sophistry as this. Truly, if Messrs. Everett and Bacon have read this precious 
letter, they cannot huV'know that there are such things as hard words and soft arguments!" 



10 

truth and right eousness; and go forward in your benificent career, expecting iiii< 
cheering and sustaining influences. 

Those vAio make the maxim, so impressively described in my text, the basis of 
their benevolent exertions may well be ammate^l with high hopes of large suc- 
cess. Few in number they may be. Formidable difficulties may i>ow seem to 
embarrass them. Huge obstacles may now tlireaten to oppose, their progress. 
Their designs may be misunderstood; their language, misinterpreted; their con- 
duct, misrepresented. They may be viliiied, slandered, persecuted. The hiss- 
ing, clamor, tumult of the maddened multitude, they may, for a season, be called 
to encounter. "Men of high degree," may join v/ith the thoughtless rabble in 
deriding, threatening, and opposing them. — But such things, they should not per- 
mit to "move them." "They that be for them, are more than they ivhidi he against 
them. God is on their side; "and how m.any," to adopt the quaii^it but pointed appeal 
of Matthew Henry, "shall he be reckoned for?" They may rely up.oi? his provi- 
dence; they may confide in his promises; they may lean upon his Holy Spirit. 
Man too; yes man is on their side; not as the creature of prejudice and passion 
but as the worlcmansMp of God: — as endowed with tendencies favorable to their 
design, which are wrought into the very elements of human nature. In spite of 
liis pride and selfishness, his lust and malice, they m.ay gain his approbation, win 
his confidence; and in the end, may expect his co-operation. The tendencies 
of his acquired character may be changed; the original tendencies of his consti? 
tution, never. Pride and passion; selfishness and prejudice may be subdued; 
but the powers and susceptibilities, which dlevate him to the ground of moral 
agency and responsibility, however they may be covered v/ith rubbish, can never 
be destroyed. God has impressed upon them the stamp of immortality. — With, 
such auxiliaries, the devoted philanthropist may wage an exterminating war witli 
moral evil, with hope of glorious success. WitJi this hope, let his port be erect 
and his etep firm. Onward, onward let hirr>, go; for victory awaits him I 



SERMON II. 

Mat. S3: 55. That upon yoti may come all the righteous blood, shed upon 
the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel, unto the blood of Zacharias son of 
Barachias, whom ye slew betvveei the temple and the altar. 

It is not perhaps easy certainly to determine whom the Savior here describe! 
under the name of Zachariasj son of Batachias. It might have been, some think, 
the son of Jehoida, the priest — who, as well as many others, might have had 
two names — who for his official fidelity was stoned to death, "at the command- 
ment of the king in the court of the house of the Lord.^' It might lia.ve been, ai 
others think, Zacharias the son of Barachias, who for his integrity and zeal in th6 
cause of Jehovah perished by the hand of violence, just beforfe the destruction of 
Jerusalem. — J" or hlood to c6me vpon any one is for him to suffer the punislunent 
due to murder. The Savior, then, threatened the wicked men ardund Him with 
punishment, appropriate to the accumulated guilt of all the former generations, 
which had dipped their hands in righteous blood. Of this punishment, too ter- 
rible to be dndured or described, the destruction of Jerusalerti would be the pre- 
cursor aiid the pledge. 

The general principle, which the text contains, may be thus presented ; 7?*« 
guilt of every new generation of sinners is increased and aggravated, by the guilt, 
so far as known, of all preceding generations of sin7iers. 

This principle is clearly involved in a remarkable statement, found in the fourth 
commandment of the decalogue. This statement contains the threatening, that 
the punishment of children, who hated God, should be aggravated and increased 
by a regard to the iniquity of their parents. In other words, of three or four gen- 
erations of haters of God, each new generation would incur a punishment more 
terribly severe than the precedihg. Three or four generations might be expect- 
ed to occiipy time enough for almost any species of iniquity to arrive at such a 
«tate of hateful maturity, as to draw down the withering, exterminating judg- 
ments of Heaven. 

I. The principle just described is sustained by the known arrangements of divine 
Providence. — While the Hebrews dwelt in Egypt, the[Canaanitish nations addic- 
ted themselves to gross idolatry; They forgot God, their creator, preserver, and 
judge;— whose wisdom, power, and goodness shone through the works of His 
hands, and placed their confidence in graven images. In the worship of theee, 
they eagerly adopted and recklessly practised the most shocking abominations. 
They wallowed in corruption. They revelled in blood. Children, generation 



riftor c-encrntion, Imbibed tlie spirit and maintained the Imbit.s of tlieir ancettor^; 
M'heir iniquities daily attained a magnitude more and more appalling-, and an as- 
pect more and more frightlul; — were daily hastening to that dreadful maturity, 
which God could no longer endure. At this point, thunder-bolts" fell upon tlie 
devoted Canaanitcs; and down they went to irremediable destruction ! Just so 
ftoonasiheir '-'iniquities were full;." — ^just so soon as a generation of men arose, 
which pursued the guilty course, marked with the foot-priiits of their ancestors, to 
a point beyond the forbearance of God, the judgments of Heaven, which had been 
accumulating for ages, swept them away from the earth, utterly and forever. 
Their puni-&'hment was evidently and fearfully aggravated by the wickedness of 
ungodly progenitors. 

The Egyptians out of regard to the benefits, with which Joseph had enriched 
them, invited his father and brethren to take up a residence among them. At 
length, probably under a new dynasty, the wisdom and benevolence of Joseph 
were forgotten. The number and prosperity of the Hebrews awakened Pharoh's 
jealousy. He might have feared, that in case of war, they would join theirforcep, 
already formidable and rapidly increasing, to his enemies; It Was, he thought, 
the dictate of sound policy, to prevent such an evil, before it could attain a mag- 
nitude, sufficient to Crush his kingdom. Measures were, therefore, taken, dic- 
tated and justified by pretended necessity, to stop the increase of the Hebrews. 
They were reduced to a state of vassalage. The most oppressive burdens were 
forcibly imposed upon them. Their sons were murdered, at their birth. This 
policy, however it might command the approbation of the subtle, self-complacent 
statesman, who hates metaphysics and glories in expediency, could not over- 
reach the omniscient mind or avert the wrath Of God. One generation after 
another escaped the gathering stOrin; till at length one arose, in which the iniquity 
of devoted Egypt appeared fuJl and ripe; The tears and groans a^nd blood of the 
children of Israel, which had been accumulating for ages, came upon this gene- 
ration in the form of frightful plagues; till at length the sea, in its resistless 
strength, swept king and people to a common Hell ! 

The Hebrews were sadly prone to forget the peculiar relation, which th^y sus- 
tained to Jehovah. They often rudely trampled on His rights. The most sacred 
obligations, by which His authority had bound them, they madly violated. Lonig' 
and graciously he forbore to strike the blow, which their crimes demanded,! 
Prophet after prophet, his mercy sent to admonish, w^arn, rebuke them. Prophet 
after prophet, they rejected, scorned, murdered. At length they arrived at 
such a pitch of audacity in wickedness, as recklessly to dip their hands in th^ 
Savior's blood. Now the storm, which had long been gathering in the heaven?, 
i«pent its fury upon them. They Could not escape its violence. They cou?d 
not resist its force. Stricken with terror, they fell, bleeding, to the earth; and 
convulsed with unutterable pangs, gave up the ghosts The blood of martyr*. 



from Abel to Zacharias, carae upon them, to aggravate their ruin. The crimes 
of their fathers for a long series of ages contributed to make their damnation 
more intolerably dreadful. 

Perhaps a better type of Hell was never seen in this world, than the scenes of 
revolutionary France exhibited. Crimes, equal to the madness of fiendish malice, 
were things of every day occurrence. Terrors, worthy of the eternal pit, filled 
the nation with dismay. Ruin was inevitable and universal. But the funeral 
pile, on which the nation, amidst deep groans and dreadful convulsions, was 
bound, was the work of ages. Generation after generation, by contempt of God 
and hatred of the saints, had been accumulating faggots. At length the iniquity 
of France was full; and a fire-brand from Hell kindled the pile, on which she 
was to answer for the crimes of numerous ages I— The instances now given, 
may sufficiently illustrate the arrangements of divine Providence, which are 
adapted to sustain the doctrines of this discourse.' 

I shall not, I hope, be understood, to advance the position, that the present life 
is a state of retribution. The suflTerings of men, in multiplied instances, are not 
to be regarded as special indications of the displeasure of God. **' Whom the 
Lord loveth, he chasteneth." The rod, which he wields, is often kindly disci- 
plinary. It belongs to the system of education, by which He trains up His people 
for Heaven. But the destruction, which falls upon incorrigible sinners, cannot 
be regarded in this light. Korah sunk to ruin under the weig ht of avenging jus- 
tice; so did Ahab and Jezebel; so did the prophets of Baal and the murderers of 
the Lord of glory. Every arrangement of Providence, which places the reckless 
rebel beyond the reach of repentance and the hope of mercy, fartakes of retribution. 
The rod of chastisement never inflicts a blow which crushes and destroys. This 
is the hand of vengeance. Those, on whom it seizes, may justly be regarded, as 
eminent in guilt. They are dragged in the present life and before the eyes of 
the world to the tribunal of eternal justice; and subject to such pains, as must 
be regarded as an earnest of the endless torments, which their crimes have mer- 
ited. 

Now it cannot be denied, that as a matter of fact, one generation of sinners 
often heaps up plagues for their successors in crime. These plagues, like the 
waters of an obstructed river, grov/, day by day, more resistless and terrible. 
And the generation, on which with deadly force they fall, is thereby held up to 
the view of an astonished world as chargeable with guilt, aggravated and increas- 
ed by the known crimes of a wicked ancestry. 

IL The doctrine of this discourse is sustained by tJie principles of acknowledged 
rectitude. 

1. By aipproving of the sins ofUs progcvdlo^'s, any descendent makes them, hh own 
sks. In the heart is found the foundation of moral character. This is liie seat 
©fail moral qualities. Every thing attractive, every thing repulsive in man, as 



£5 

a liidfil agfcijt. may be triiced to the obscure recesses of his bosom. Just ?o far 
nx the movements of the heart are accordant with the will of God, the moral 
<:liaracter is good; just so far as they are adverse to the divine requisitions, the 
moral character is bad. This doctrine rests on the authority of our Saviour. 
In the exposition of the law, which he publishodj he clearly and impressively 
taught the lesson, that the divine requisitions urging their demands and directing 
their force immediately to the heart. A wanton look involves adultery; malig- 
aant feelings, murder. — The elements of moral character, then, consist in the 
exercise of choice and affection. — The objects, which the lavv'- of God embraces, 
are presented to the mind in a thousand different ways. Now, they appear be- 
fore us, as present objects, with which we have to do in the transactions of real 
life. Now, they ^re mtroduced to us by the officious imagination. And now, 
they are presented by the page of history. But however they may attract our 
notice, just so far as they interest our feelings and awaken our affections, just 
«o far they become to us the necessary occasion of moral action. The exercises, 
which we have, whether expressed in a visible form or not, enter directly and 
vitally into that character, for which we are resporxsible at the tribunal of Jeho- 
vah. 

You enter upon the scenes which your imagination has created and arranged. 
Amidst these scenes, your eye fastens upon a rival, whom you fear for his tal- 
ents or hate for his success. You strip him of the honors, which he had acqui- 
red. You deprive him of every thing, which might insure him public confidence 
and applause. You place him degraded, helpless, suppliant, at your feet. You 
rejoice, in the iDortification which he feels: you exult over his downfall; you 
triumph in his blasted hopes and gloomy prospects. Your ears drink in the mu- 
sic of his sighs. The throbs of his aching heart delight you. — YeSj and amidst 
these fancied scenes, you are committing real crimes. The malignant gratifica- 
tion, which you cherish, is no figment of the imagination. It is a frightful real- 
ity, which God abhors, and which you must meet at his tribunal. It enters 
vitally into your moral character. It strengthens your wicked tendencies. It 
confirms your sinful habits. It renders you more fit for Hell. You are as cer- 
tainly and as rapidly accumulating guilt, as if you cherished the same feelingi 
and maintained the same attitudes amidst the actual occurrences of real life. 

Fix your eyes on yonder youth. He is the child of Canaanitish parents. 
The first objects, which attracted his attention, were the bloody and obscene 
rights of the superstition, with which his parents were besotted. These rites 
greatly interested his feelings. He was delighted with them. Every opportu- 
nity of witnessing them, he eagerly welcomed. The grosser the obscenity the 
higher was his gratification. The deeper the stream of human blood, which 
flowed from the altar of devils, the livelier was his complacency in the idolatry of 
fais country. Not satisfied with the abominations, which fell under hii own no>* 



24 

tice,'lm lurnot! liis eye bfeck v!j:on past ages. The eourye wiiich liis s'ljjersti- 
tioiis ancestors pursued, engan-ed his attention. Step by step, he traced back 
the progress of idolatry into tJie obscurity of remote ages, where its origin was 
concealed. Ilc'beheid it in its rudest state. He contemplated the clu«isy im- 
ages, the niisshapen altars, the crude rites, through which in early times, his 
progenitors, cherished and expressed their proud and malignant feelings. He 
marked with attentive ey-e, the changes, which succeeding generations had 
wrought in the prevailirg superstition. Every new idol, temple, altar, rite, 
M^hich had been added to it, he carefully observed. He thus brought under full 
review the various facts, which the history of the idolatry of his country embod- 
ied and presented. And upon all these facts, he dwelt with deep delight Upon 
the scenes, which one after another opened upon his mind, he entered v/ith eager- 
ness and raised expectation. Me cordially and fully sympathised with the vari- 
ous actors, he mingled Mnth. With keen relish, he snuffed the blood, which they 
shed; and reveled in the obscenities, in which they wallowed. He entered with 
all his heart into all their sv/inish pleasures. Jlnd as a moral agent,^ it is most 
certain, he is stretching his existence over the long jperiod which he contemplates. 
He lives the lives of hie ancestors. He incorporates into his character, their 
thoughts, feelings, habits. By approving of their crimes, he makes them his own. 
He receives upon his heart the impression of their character. He stamps their 
image on his soul; and involves himself in guilt, aggravated and increased hy their 
iniquities. 

If the elements of moral character consist in the exercises of the heart, so far 
as we sympathise in the wicked feelings and wrong designs of our predecessors 
in iniquity, we become, in a most important sense, guilty of their crimes. If our. 
acquaintance with their character is thorough and minute, and it excites our 
complacency and delight, we justly become responsible for all the feelings and 
habits, of which it is com.posed. 

2. 7he history of their predecessors in iniquity sheds a strong and dear light up- 
on the tendency of the crimes in ivJiick any new generation of sinners may indulge. 
Shall I relate the history of that drunkard, you saw just now? When he was 
a child, he often fled from the face of an intoxicated father. He will carry to 
his grave the marks of brutal violence, to which that father's fury then subjected 
him. Oflen did he cry for bread, which liis wretched mother could not give him. 
The ^e\sr rags, which hung upon him, left him exposed to the rigors of winter. 
To his equals in age. he was the butt of ridicule. They cruelly styled him the 
drunkard's child. As he grew up, a thousand killing influences, rising from his 
father's bottle, stole upon him. That father's fiery breath withered all his joys.. 
He felt him.self forsaken, desolate, despised. — He turned his pained eye back up- 
on his ancestors. Rising from generation to generation, he saw that one afler 
aj/other had Uvedand died a drunkard} that one after aoother had boeii infamous. 



f:>r tliecninss and notorious for the wretchedneiss, which had proceeded trom hjg 
' chosen, cherished vice. Every letter of tiieir history furnishes hiln sad proof, 
thdc death is in tl^e bottle. And yet this man, thus instructed and warned, choge 
the bottle for his companion by day and hi;^ solace by night! Now ccmpare Ids 
^^uilt with that of the first drunkard of his race; That man had seen no illustra- 
tion of the frio-htfal tendencies, with v;hic]i strong drink was charged. lie took 
up the cup, ignorant of the deaclly poison, it contained. Na.y, he thcaght it of- 
fered him the balm of life. He drank an;l died! His firs- born son, in full view 
of his murdered father, drank and diea! And so, tJjG cup .t:C33 down. Genera- 
tion after generation drink and die. The wretch, whose history I have just been 
sketching, was warned by the death-screams of his progenitors for four genera- 
tions, to stand aloof from the intoxicating bowl. Its dsadly tendencies are ur- 
ged upon him, in the rags and filth; the shivering frames and pining limbs: the 
deep infamy and blank despair, which it drev.^ upon them. Who can deny, that 
his guilt was miserably aggravated and greatly increased by theirs. 

Look at the slave holder.* One of the earliest scenes, perhaps, which he 
remembers, reminds him of the'pale ra?e, and terrific screams of his mother 
when the shout of "fire" fdled her with apprehensions, that tlie slaves might 
rise in vengeance upon herself and fimily. He renembers what revolting 
measures were resorted to, to keep those wretched creatures in a prostrate and 
helpless state. Hov>r his ears tingled when he first heard the chains rattle ! 
How his blood curdled, when he first beheld the uplifted v.diip I And what a 
horrid discipline he was subject to., before he learned himself to curse and smite 
the trembling, unprotected slave ! What gusts of passion, he has felt and 
witnessed on one side; and what deep, hopeless sorrovv^ on the other ! What 
fruits of lust has he not seen and tasted ! What images of danger, have not 
mingled with his dreams by night, and haunted his imagination by day ! What 
a deep source of wretchedness has the monstrous crime of slave holding been to 
Ids parents; to theirs; to all his progenitors back to the v/retcli who first fastened 
a fetter on his brother's heel ! Every page of the history of his ancestrj', evinces, 
that the crime of holding slaves is big with dl-eadful tendencies. And yet, Vvdth 
this history open before him, illustrated and enforced by the bitter experience ot 
his own childhood and youth, he consents .o receive under his control, as master, 
his unoffending fellow men, as slaves ! He refuses to take warning from the 
^uilt and misery of those who have preceded him. With all the light vvdiich 
their experience sheds around him, he has the hardihood to commit the sins 
which made them worthy of infamy, deep and everlasting ! Yes, and. his wicked- 
ness far surpasses theirs. When his judge shall consign him to a darker hell., 



* Tn delivering; this discourse, I adapted this illustration lo an £^7//>f?a?i slave-holder. On 
larther examination, however, J was convinced, that the Egyptians did not hold the Hebrews, 
as dotnsstic slaves. See Prof. Stuart's Course of Hebrew Studv.Vol. II. n. 175- 



£6 

than that-m wliich they wail, his conscious guilt, like the frosts of death, will 
close his lips in eternal silence. 

How can that infidel, who sets his foot upon the Bible, forget the groan, 
which burst from his dying fathers heart ! The whole history of that father 
furnishes him with sad proof of the chilling influence and damning tendencies 
of skepticism. He was the victim of passion. He was the prey of remorse. 
He was often seated with apparitions from the dark future. He was as sour 
and superstitious, as he was skeptical. He lived in fear of the eternal realities, 
he affected to despise, and died horror struck Vv^ith anticipated wrath. How 
could the son rush down the precipice, where he saw his father miserably perish I 
Let him remember, that the hand which crushed his father, will fall with double 
weight on him ! 

The guilt of sinners is manifestly increased by every new ray of light, which 
falls upon the tendencies of their iniquities. What made Capernaum worse 
than Sodom 1 Clearly, their abuse of richer privileges. The more men know 
of the tendencies of sin, the greater must be their guilt in committing it. This 
is too plain a point, to require further illustration. He who could deny it, must 
be too dull to be enlightened by the clearest information, or too stiff to be con- 
vinced by the most conclusive reasoning. Thus the known arrangements of 
divine providence and the principles of acknowledged rectitude give their full 
support to the doctrine, I have been laboring to illustrate and sustain. 

In revieiv of the train of thought, just presented, I remark, that it co^-rects the 
mistake of those who hold and teach, that guilt is dimiriished by being, as they say, 
entailed.* — To the word entailed, I presume, they give in such connections a 
fig-urative sense. Few can have the face to say, that guilt, like gold, may be 
transferred by inheritance. It consists in the workings of the lieart ; and no 
man, when he passes into eternity, leaves his heart behind. Entailed guilt must 
arise from imitating the sins of progenitors. The doctrine which I would now 
expose and correct, teaches, that the practice of any vice becomes less and less 
wicked, as it passes down from generation to generation. In process of time, 
then, the grossest species of iniquity may lose all its hateful quahties and noxious 
tendencies. What in the ancestor was damning guilt, in thejlescendant may be 

* As a specimen of the wretched cant, which we are often forced to hear upon this subject, 
take the toUowing- apologies for slave-holding-.- 

"Even slavery must be viewed as a great national calamity; a public evil entailed upon us 
by untoward ci7-cumstances." — African Repository, vol. V, 89. 

•'For the existence of.«lavery in the United States, those, and those only, are accountable, 
.who bore a part in originating such a con.etitution of society. The men, who brought the 
kidnapped wretches from the shores of Africa, the men who bought the victims, ihelegisla- 
lators, who permitted and enconraged such a traffic— they must account to God for those 
crimes, and for the natural results oT those crimes, through all g-enerations. Christian Spec- 
tator, 1830, p. 47a. b & 

And so, according to this casuist, the inheritor ofa thief's right to the plunder, he had sto- 
•len, siiav be a truly konest man. 



£7 

innocence. Crime?, as foul as a demon's Iieart, may, by this metliod be reduced 
to angelic purity ! Had this doctrine been admitted by Jehovah, when could he 
have pronounced the iniquities of the Canaanitish nations "full" ? Every new 
generation of idolators would have been less guilty than their fathers ; till at 
length a race might have been expected, who should practice the most shocking 
abominations with innocence and impunity ! Had our Saviour admitted this 
doctrine, on what grounds could He have threatened the guilty men, who were 
eager to dip their hands in His blood, with a punishment more terribly severe, 
than fell upon the murderers of prophets ? Why, according to this doctrine, the 
more light the transgressor has, the less guilt he contracts ! He may sympa- 
thize in the wicked feelings, and approve the wicked deeds of his fathers- and 
thus awaken his heart to the worst exercises, wit]] out partaking of his father's 
guilt ! He may see his fatJier bleeding, groaning, dying under the w^eight of his 
iniquities; and eagerly embrace and recklessly practice the same iniquities with 
comparative impunity ! Such doctrine bears upon its face the stamp of absur- 
dity and impiety. The falsehood, which it carries in it, is only equalled by the 
mischiefs which it is fitted to produce. 

And yet, some philosophers have the face to tell us, that it is a full excuse 
for certain crimes, that they have long and stoutly been persisted in ! Thev 
have been for ages, the dying legacy of fathers to their children. And what 
less could the ill-fated children do, than thankfully to take and eagerly enjoy the 
foul inheritance!* How hard must be the heart, which could blame them for 
the sins which have been entailed upon them ! On this ground it is, that we 
sometimes witness efforts to vindicate slave-holders. The present race try to 
throw back their guilt upon their dead and putrid ancestry. Or, if they fear, 
that in so doing, they may wound the reputation of their progenitors, they lay 



* In the African Repository, for Sept. 1831. we are gjavelj' told, tliat the frien^Is o£ imme - 
diate emancipation in their arguments "confound the misfortunes of one generation with the 
crimes of another." See 202nd page. 

That house on the other side of the way is a splendid brothel, of long standing and great ce- 
lebrity. Scenes are enacted there, which you could not look upon without b&ing°horror- 
struck. It is the ilood-gate through which thousands rush to present infamy and eternal dam- 
nation. Nay, do not express your deep indignation by calling ihe present proprietor ajiend. 
Give him no harsh epithet. He is a gentleman, highly intelligent, and not devoid of moral 
worth. I'ou are in danger of "confounding his misfortvnes with the crimes of the generation' 



before him. The establishment, he keeps,, with all the bawds, pimps, and strumpets, which 
belong to it, was the dying bequest of his father. "For the origin and existence of this sys- 
tem," he "is not responsible." "He finds himself the lord of perhaps a hundred human be- 
iigs ; and is anxious to do them all the good in his power y (See Christian Spectator for Sep. 
830, p. 477.) "He would emancipate them; but if he does, their prospect of happiness can 
lardly be said to be improved by the ghange.'' jN'one but the "liaming" friends of virtue 
ould ever find it in their hearts to blame him !— Such is the logic, steeped in absurdity and 
m, which apologists for slave-holding- are farced lo employ, in defending the cause of' their 



H on the head of the king- of England !* Thus while they iafxict tlie rrreatest 
injuries on their mioifendino- fe]lo\7 men and expose tlieir country to the most 
terrible calamities, they contrive to keep themselves erect. They will not he 
blamed for their monstrous wickedness in trampling on the dearest liohts of 
their own brethren ; in treating them as cattle ; in tormenting- their hodies and 
murdering their souls ! • 

■ But, let the elave-holder know, what the thunders, of avenging Heaven will 
pne day teach him, that he is more deeply guilty than his predecessors in crime. 
He breathes their spirit, and adopts their habits, and exhibits their character, 
amidst clearer light than they abused. Their history furnishes him with weighty 
lessons of instruction, Vv'hich he ventures to disregard; urges, as in peals of 
thunder, impressive warnings on hira, which he mrdly neglects. While he re- 
fuses to let. go the sufferers, v^diom ho holds in bondage, he is " treasuring up 
\yrath against the day of wrath." As he would escape, the storm, which for 
ages has been gathering in the hea.vens, let him withdraw his hand from his 
brother's throat, f And let those, who soothe the fears and hush the conscience 

* Til aii a(l(!res3 of Prof. SiUimrin ©rTsle ,Cti!!iege,pu!jiifhed in the African Repository, for 
Au^. 183:2; we have the foliuvv in'g- statetiiriit : "SUvery, it is well known, was forced upoa 
iil'i !he early coionies by the policy of the uioLher cuUfi'try, and by the cupidity of her traders 
iu huiiiria llesh." — Before the Coloiiizatioa Society st W.cjshingtoii, in Jan. 1831, Mr. Custis 
held !.he f^Udviiig !an2,uRge: '*Let it be renjcnibered, th.Ttt the evil, which v/e ha\e iiiheriU'd, 
■wi.s I .-.'Ught i])M)n us agaiiiBt'our renioiiitrsnce.s and piajtr.^/by oar ancient RuIersJ' (Four- 
teen:;; Aiisiuai Report of tiie Colon. Soc. p. 21.) ■ , ', . 

With liiis drunkai'd, my friend leuionstrated in terms fiflectioRafe, yet pointed. Look, said 
he,ui yoijr heai t-bioKeci wife anc^ wretched chiidreu. VV'iata picture do they not pi'eserit of 
iiopcUsss niiicry ! With what tagerne.■^3 nnist they not cc.usrt death, iu the !ii»pe of finding that 
rciu^;e in the grave, whicii your giant vices deny them hei-e ! Hww can yon cling to tfie bottle, 
to the r'in uf yourbeU'and ihe faruiiv, yon aria sacredly picdged to love? — The drunkard led 
tiiy iVi-^nci to the door of his cruinbling- hovei.^ Do you see, he eagerly exclaimed as he pointed 
I !!!« Iji : trenibiing iiand; do you see thai olct sign, yonder, which is flapping in the wind? 
Well, 'ihatsign, for three geiierations, has given notice to all around, that plenty of good 
rum was placed within our reach. When it was first set up, our ancestors remonstrated with 
Hie toivn-autfioriiy against the e.^tatdisiiment, of such a tavern here. Btit all ih vain. "Again.it 
their reinonJriaroes aO'l prayers, ' "this evil was brought upon us." "■! rise. Sir, fo vindicate 
my ciini-dcier.'' Yon. seem (o speak, as if in my "own proper person, I am responsible for the 
i?' ii,-:. v.'iiich have beeii iuipo^eci on iwn by otliers." "Di'uiikenness, it is well known, vjas 
fdvccd, iipoii" luc, "by the jjoiicy of" the tovvn authority, of other times! True, \ starve, and 
•nirse, ximj heat my wih' and children ; but you lu'jst not by bianiing me "confound 7ny misjor- 
ivnas with i h ^criniiis of ;>.!iotl)er generation'"! 

Ltt ihfi --jlnvLiH'j^" ap.T.->tlesof temperaiice beware! 

•!• (>i! a --petcii of iVii'. Dccclcenridge, published in the African Repository for A'i<>-ii«t, ISSl , 
Mi', (hiri'^v, 1 110 Secretary of the American Culoniziitiosii Society, makes the following re- 
uiarkri. "rho, speech which we pjubljsh in our present nuiuber, is certainly an aide ani elo- 
qiienf produ ■.tion. In the sentiments of tliis speech genera.ily,_we concurv but we wish it to be 
tiistiiicdy liudti'stood, that we consider slavery to bean evil, which cannot, without producing 
evils .^•iral<^r tJian ilse f, bo abolished, except by cautious, deliberate, and gradual measu'e-. 
'Phe pri'.i.ii', a-eywraHon did nrit produce, anoi a v. not Ihfnf.re rcsponsihlc f.ir Ihc cuisii'-nre 
<j' t'r'A preawif'vm.ufs ,cietii in onr Southi.rn CAnhjiiuaJtics. jf the state ()f)hiai>x is -irrun^, 
1-' shniu'i he s:t right, not only v)i,ik dae rhgard to Iha rii^'hts and iutertsls of all p irlie.i.'" — 
^:-e,- lip. }i;,;, 18G. 

■ !..»;: i: ."> I'loafh evenhig, a.«!ave-holdpr f-^Us ipt.-i n^ep medit^itlon on the inrport and rarion<< 
b'. 'i <•'■■' ^':.. J f the Savior's gi/'den ruic; " VVhatv.'.jvtT yfc w^uh! thutmfu should do toyou,do y;. 



29 

of tlu6 wicked niaP, by propLe.?y:ng in h\s ears their dreams about eniaUcd ini- 
qviiy, cease to deceive, and inislead, and destroy. Why ^^•ill they paliiale hia 
c.rinies ? Eetter try to .save him from the judgments, which certainly await him. 
. Better hold up before his face liis guilt and danger,, and try to stop him in hir, 
mad career. Thus only can they hope to deliver him from the wrongs and teara 
and blood of all the slaves, M'ho have been consigned to chains, Jrorn the dev 
when tlie f rst man-stealer placed his cloven feet on the shores of Africa to the 
present hour ! 

2. ^ke train of thovght on icliidi we have been dwellhg,_ presents to them a 

watming, which inipmitent men ovgkt to take home to ilieir inmost soiils. With 

every nevv'- generation of unbelievers, the guilt of spurning oSered mercv, be- 
comes more heinous. Every day increases.it. ..Almost every occurrence in 
their history adds to its aggravation. Fellow-sinnsr.s, you know that '-'it is hard 
to kick against the pricks," which the "broad road" every where presents. 
They are stained with the blood of many generations. There vour fathers tore 
their flesh. There, have you been wounded,. Deep groans from a thousand 
sepulchres teach you,, that " the v/ages of sin are death." To these oroans 
your diseased hearts respond ; " the wages of sin are deathi " Every o-rave 
and bone you see, e v^ery pain and fear you ^ee'l, rebukes your unbelief The very 
fires of liell flash in your face i What madness then, " to go on in sin !'' 
O, take warning. Pause, I beseech you, pause. Draw not down upon your 
heads the threatening ruins of a thousand generations. Warned bv the nlagues 
of others, escape to the arms of mercy„ 

even so to them." At length, in an under (one, he o:ives expression to the fee^'ne^ r/ h is U. 
bonna,- bosoiu. ".IS'o, no! 1 could never cunse-it to be a slave! What, to besubjert to the 
will oi ail in-e?ponsib!e maner ! 1 o be workevi and led and tre^frd like a beast ! To Fee mr 
wite exposed, helpless- and unprotf:C(eci, in the pollution ot unbridled lust! iVIv children lik« 
swine driven to the nVarket! M\ %om\ sitlieiis at such ihono:hts! No. [ could not be a s^ave' 
1 could sooner euibrace death in luMuo^it hageaid form! Alas the Bible has frxed a barbed 
sliiift m n,y tren.bl.u- heart ! I can never n.ort find p^aro, til! I -jve up n,v brethren, xvhoni 
I hoin va oonda.se. .3. it what have I here. Ab, a number of the Afnran Reno«ilorv Let 
nieshntuptheUible. and see what If contains. What? What is [lere? ^'The present sen- 
eraiiondxaiiotprouuce^and are^ not therefore rf^MmdbhJhr the present form of sociefv in 
our Sonflurn comnumifiesr Had 1 roun.. anv thing iil;e this in mv Bible,' i should ha-e es- 
caped those pangs, whicn have aiujosl br>.ke „:v heart. 1 h,_se words semi to soot.hk m*" 
*■ I a;n not responstbler But .(op. Is this true? It strikes n,e with an inmre^non afto=-etH- 
erdifTere.it tronj that, which lhpa->v(u! 'Ic-nunriation* of the nih.e n^r.ke noon me. .It doe's not 
threaten me With the wvalh ot God, if ] r-litre to "brejik evf iv vr,!ce." 'fls 58 6) Let me 
think ^ nu.ment. Air. Giii-iey is a pious n)an, aad a chris.ian unnisf.r. He knows n.ore'aboct 
Ihe. Biole than mvselt He professes too, to be en^a-ed in lab.n-s for the benelit of colored 
nuni. And he savs, -\ a-n not r.sponM M the very point, where a sense of mv rtsponsibili- 
tyhad we! n.g,i::rusn<^l me. .1 I per.sh Ui mr irmH. he 7^,>j damnaiionon his head! Hence- 
tonn, I wdl read ;v!r. (^nney n;o!e ano oiy Biide If .sj!" 

Let the anologists for «iave-ho!din- like lVrv.nnr'ev,!cnn,v, f 'lot t'-:r =oft, deceitAi! words 
jr. Aital pO!son to the wicker n..;% ..hon, t ,ev unblMshi.o-S v. .m;,-. to .oothe in their in^oui- 
a,.-.. UiiU^n>UKcl.unie L,e aauioaivioi, , .^noihir .oj' .,ul .Loo: >vhai soul lyvurd^r il-ej 



SERMON III. 

John, 5: 50. I can of mine own self do nothing; as I hear, I jadge; and my 
judgment is just: because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father, 
which hath sent me. 

I invite j^our attention to the ground, on which our Lord here commends his 
judgment to the confidence of those whom he addressed. His competence to 
decide on the points, lie had examined and discussed, could not be justly ques- 
tioned; for "as he heard, he judged" — was well acquainted with the subjects on 
which he formed and pronounced his judgment. And that his judgment might 
safely be confided in, could fairly be inferred from his disinterestedness; — "because 
I seek not my own will, but the will of the Father -which hath sent me." Had 
he been selfish, his decisions would have affected by some unhappy bias. They 
might have been no better than mere prejudice. But no such bias could 
sway the bosom which was penetrated and warmed by benevolent affection. 
In this passage, thus briefly explained, the following principle is involved and 
presented: 

IKe jndgiriC.nt , wMch men form on suhj'ec's of practical interest, is greatly affected 
hy the state of their affections. 

I. This princijjle is clearly iUnstra ted and fully siistai?ied hy the authority of the 
Bible. In the memorable interview which our Lord had with Nicodemus, 
a.mong other Vv-eighty truths, he taught the Jewish ruler, on what ground the 
doctrines of the gospel were rejected by some and welcomed by others. "Every 
one that doeth evil, hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds 
should be reproved. But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds 
may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God." The doctrines of the 
gospel here presented under the image of light, bad men reject under the influ- 
ence of their wicked affections. Good men, illumined and controlled by an obe- 
dient spirit, cordially receive them. The judgment of tlit latter is conformed to 
truth by the influence of tlie benevolent atTections, which they maintain, while that 
of the former is perverted by their cherished selfishness. 

"How can ye believe," said our Saviour to the Jewish skeptics, "which receive 
honor one of another, and seek not the honor, that cometh from God only?" 
What prevented truth from working its appropriate eflect on those, upon whom 
this mortifying appeal waG urged? What broke for them the force of evidence, 
tho ;no;it appropriate and pov.'orful? Thcincieh-edhearta, most innmihstly. Pop- 



51 

iularitT Vas tlieir idol. They thrust this upon the throne of God. The bad af- 
fections, Avkich they cherished, could not but pervert tJie judg-raent, which ther 
formed. The doctrines of the Saviour were adverse to their favorite errors; 
and for this reason, they were determined in despite of any evidence whatever, 
to reject them. 

On a certain occasion, "the chief priests and Pharisees sent officers to take" 
the Saviour. They returned, however, without their prey. "Why", demanded 
their employers, "have ye not brought him"?" In apology, they frankly confes- 
sed, that they were awed and subdued by his wisdom, truth, and eloquence;— 
"never man spake like this man." The deep conviction, w^hich they felt and 
avowed, the Pharisees regarded as infatuation. " Are ye also deceived] But 
this people that knoweth not the law, are cursed." Here, one of their own 
number, who had some personal acquaintance with Jesus Christ, interposed the 
embarrassing inquiry: "Doth our law judge any man before it hear him, and 
know what he doetli]" They disposed of this inquiry wdth a sneer: "art thou 
also of Galilee"?" adding an appeal, wdiich their disgusting and disgraceful ignor- 
ance thought triumphant: "Search and see, for from Galilee ariseth no prophet." 
— Let us d7,yell a moment on this instructive scene. Two points there were 
which demanded the special attention of the Jewish council. The first was 
suggested by Nicodemus. How could they pretend to reverence the law, 
when, contrary to its requisitions, they condemned a man, unheard? The least 
reflection, combined wdth the least degree of candor, must have made them 
pause, blush, condemn themselves,and retrace their steps. But their giant prejudi- 
ces put out their eyes, closed up their ears, and filled their minds wath madness. 
Reason, they could not. Arguments to justify themselves they had none. But 
one thing they could do; They could sneer! "Art thou also of Galileef What 
if he was of Galilee? Could any attachment, which Nicodemus might have to 
Galilee, excuse their prejudices, and errors, and crimes! x\nd what if no prophet 
could be expected to arise in Galilee? what had this to do witJi the official claims 
of Jesus Christ, who, if they had "searched," they might have known was born 
in Bethlehem. The other point, which could not escape their notice, was invol- 
ved in the conduct and presented in the confession of the oiScers, w^hom they had 
sent to apprehend the Saviour. Probably these men received their commission, 
with hearts as hostile to Jesus Christ as those of the chief priests. But his be- 
nevolence and wisdom disarmed them. How could they treat him as a criminal?' 
They bowed reverently before him, as gifted with supernatural endowments. 
Penetrated with this conviction, they returned to the Jewish council. The 
ground, on which they had proceeded, they honestly described. They presented 
a problem, which the Pharisees were bound to explain. How came these oincers 
to be awed by the authority, and subdued by the instructions, of the man of 
Nazareth? A single glance at this problem was enougli to make them see and 



feel, that they theraselves were bound to know more of Jesus Christ, before they 
proceeded to condemn him. Plow couid tliey be assured, that they niight not, 
then, sympathize with their astonished officers'? Instead, however, of manfully 
grasping the problem, which was urged upon them, they contented themselves 
with charging infatuation upon their servants! And on what ground? Why, on 
the ground that none of the "rulers or the Pliarisees" had respected the charac- 
acter or admitted the claims of Jesus Christ! What then? All their acquaint- 
ance with his character and claims, they had gotten by squint-eyed glances I 
What then 1 Were thaj only gifted with intelligence and candor; opportunities 
to observe, and powers to reflect, and capacities to judge? What then? Must 
25ot the abandonment of pojDular error, if it be to be relinquished, begin spme- 
wiiere? And why might not these olEcers commence a glorious reforma- 
tion, as well as the rulers or the Pharisees? Nay, one of their own number wps 
already convinced of the divine authority of Jesus Christ. Had they' been dis- 
posed to hear, he would have explained to theni the ground of his conviction. 
But alas, they were madly bent on maintaining at the expense of truth, and can- 
tl^V, and justice; nay, at the expense of the smiles of Heaven, the bad cause in 
svhich they had embarked; and argument was lost upon them. "How could 
,they believe," v,'ho preferred' their own to tlis authority of God? 

But without multiplying illustrations fro^B the sacred volume, I proceed, 

II. To argue the soundness and truth of the principle which it hi my present 
object to illustrate and s.pi)ly,/rom the common sense ofmanldnd. 

Why do mankind promptly and unifermly withhold their confidence from the 
decision of a judge, who is known, in any case, to have received bribes? Why 
without hesitation, do they on this ground regard his judgment, as unjust? Could 
iiiQ gold., which was placed witiiin his hands, deprive him of his intellectual 
powers or his legal learning? No. But it subjected him to a strong selfish 
bias. This bias turns the force of evidence aside from its natural direction. It 
fails to reach his mind. It cannot, then, form the basis of his judgmento Hia 
decisions cannot but be wrong. 

Why may not a judge decide a cause, in v/hich he is himself a party? Cannot 
he, in such a case, understand statements, and weigh evidence, and adjust analo- 
gies? Cannot he feel the force of arguments and perceive tlie bearing of prin- 
ciples? Why do all men, with one accord require hini to leave the judgment- 
fieat? Because, they are well assured, that his heart, with its selfish tendencies, 
will certainly mislead his understanding. His integrity may be above suspi- 
cion — his honesty none may call in question; but after all, it is felt by every one» 
that selfishness will not fail to warp his judgment. — -For the same reason, he 
jnay not sit in judgment on the character of an avoM^ed and acknowledged enemy. 
His affections will seduce his understanding; and his enemy v/ill receive injus- 
tice at his hands. 



3» 

And why do demagogues labor with such itiduatry and zeal to make "the 
people" give them credit for benevolent feelings and intentions'? They are anx- 
ious to create for themselves an interest in the public heart — to gain the affec- 
tions of those, whom they would seduce and destroy. Then, and not till then, 
can they hope, that their sophistry will be taken for sound reasoning. A gene- 
ral bias in their favor, and they know, tliat a. mere show of argument will con- 
trol the public understanding. Thus the French demagoges of a former gener- 
tion, claiming to be warm advocates of the rights of man, and pouring coarse 
flattery upon the rabble, reduced the multitude to entire submission to their foul 



In a court of justice, the character of a vi^itness is called in question. To ob- 
tain just views of his reputation, one of his near neighbors is brought forward. As 
a preface to the statement, he is about to offer, he informs the court, that from 
his earliest recollection, he had looked upon the witness with dislike. When they 
were boys together, he used to please himself with pestering him, and making him 
the butt of ridicule. . As they advanced in years, his early dislike of him had ripen- 
ed into deep and fixed hatred, A thousand times he had felt it to be a sore 
grievance to live in the vicinity of the witness; and had as often wished, that hs 
was set down permanently on the other side of the globe. Indeed he had long 
labored to force him off'by assailing his reputation, by afflicting him with petty 
vexations, which the law could not recognize, as crime; by distressing and tor- 
menting him in a thousand nameless ways. He declares, that he rejoices to 
seize the present opportunity, to fix another thorn in the heart of the poor wit- 
ness by publicly wounding his good name. — Would any court of justice listen to 
his statement? Would he have liberty to utter another syilable? Would the 
weight of a feather be aliow^ed to any testimony ho might offer? Surely not. 
All men would cry, shame on him! Any judgment he might give about his 
persecuted neighbor would be pronounced unjust, by acclamation. And why? 
Because his heart was manifestly poisoned. The decisions of his understanding 
could not but be perverted by bis bad affections. 

The cases, now given, may justly be regarded, as a fair expression of the com- 
mon sense of mankind on the subject under examination. And this expression ia 
in accordance with truth; for it is the testimony of universal experience and ob- 
servation. Human nature in every man's bosom bears witness, promptly, une- 
quivocally, emphatically, to the trust-worthiness of this testimony. 

III. The principle, laid down, at the beginning o'{ this discourse, may be illus- 
trated and sustained by reference to thep-oce^s, thrmigh which the mind passes in 
forming a judgment. This process is called reasming. It consists in the 
comparing of a case, examined, with some admitted principle. Such principles 
are derived from various sources. Now, they haye the form and weight of ax- 
ioms; now, they consist of statements from the lips oi God; and, ig-ain, th^v 



S4 

hit a n-eiieral, ccmpreaer.sive expressioa ofclassss'of facts, which have been ex-^ 
amined and arranofed. These last may be called conclusions derived from 
irdiictwe reasoning. Facts are drawn together and throvrn into classes, by virtue 
of a certain analogy or resemblance, which they have to each other. This an- 
alogy is the ground of classification. In many respects, the facts in question 
may be unlike each other. This makes no difference. The point of resernbiance^ 
which is the standard of classification, draws them together. ,Jlnd on iJiis point 
■rests the <yeneroJ 'principle. This principle embraces all facts, which are marked 
by this analogy. Any new fact, which on examination presents this point of 
resemblance, naturally falls under the general principle, just referred to. In 
reasoning, then, v/e take a fact, which we have not seen disposed of, and mark 
its reserahlance to other facts, with which we are acquainted, to ascertain under 
what general principle it naturally falls. When we have thrown it into the 
clasB, to which it properly belongs, then we affirm of it, what our general principle 
sfHrras of the sister facts, with which analogy associates it. 

How manifest it roust be, that in the process of reasoning, full play is given to 
the afiections of the iieart! Mark in the first place, the bearing of benevolence or 
■selilsivness on the attention, requisite to undersiand any given case of practical con- 
■'ce)-n. Every such case involves the rigJiis ot some moral agent, which the law 
of (icd has defined arsd asserted. For all these rights, a heart controlled by 
benevolence cherishes a deep respect and a warm affection. In this state of mind 
indeed, benevolence consists. It employs its resources in vindicating, mamtain- 
in!7, and promoting rights. In this work it pours out its feelings and expends its 
pov/ers! Here it is alv^ays awake, always active. Here, it achieves its victOr 
Vies and gathors its laurels. — Whenever a man of benevolent feelings, then, un- 
dertak-ef. to reason on a fa.ct. involving rights human or divine, his heart will 
constrain him to liold the* f.^ct steadily and long, before him, till he can thorough- 
Iv examine it, and. form clear and just vievv^s of its bearings and relations. He 
cannot hastily dismiss iL He cannot satisfy himself with bestowing on it a 
iiidewise glance. It involves rights; and these, wherever they may be found, he 
is intent on asserting and maintaining. Ho cannot sacrifice them by negligence 
or liacte. Vv^itli open eyes and patient mind, therefore, he will s&arch the mat- 
ter, however forbidding or intricate it may seem to be, to the very bottom. — A 
suppliant implores his aid. He describes his condition. Tlie blighting hand, 
of adversity has been upon him. It has stripped him, and wounded Iiim, and 
loO: him half dead.— What v/ill the man of heavenly "temper do? A brother 
kneels before him. Will he throw this case, without examination, among the 
facts, which furnish ground fbr the general principle; beggars are impostors? 
No, he cannot do fo. He fears, that he shouid sacrifice the rights of a brother. 
No. He will pause, inquire, examine, and as':prtran llie truth. He v/ill not 
dismiss the case, till he under.«t<^.nds if>: merits. 



S5 

Hov/ opposite are the workings and tendencies of the selfish spirit! Such a spirit 
<Jeifies a trifle. To this, it makes every thing subservient. To this, it promptly 
and recklessly sacriiices.? the rights of God and man. Every thing in Heavea 
and on earth is estimated by its relation to its own petty interests. In this, the 
core of selfishness consists.— -When a selfish man, therefore, comes across a new 
'fact, his first inquiry will naturally be, what bearing has it upon what I cherish 
as my own personal interests If none; he is at once prepared to dismiss it. If 
its bearing seems adverse, he is ready to trample on any right of any being, which 
it may involve to save himself fi-om apprehended danger. His examination of 
the subject must at best be limited and partial. Only i-o much attention will 
be given, as his cvm interests may seem to require. The moment his interests 
are secured his patience will be exhausted. — The beggar stands trembling at his 
gate. He sees at once, that no advantage can be hoped for from rags and hun- 
ger. He remembers in a moment all the cases of pretence he has seen or heard 
of. He eagerly jumps at the conclusion, that this must be a fresh fact, belong- 
ing to the same class. He, therefore, rasliiy bids his brother, who, for aught he 
knows or cares to know, m.ay be an angel in disguise, depart. Reckless of any 
sacrifice of right, he rudely thrusts the suppliant away, to perish in the street! — 
Thus it is apparent, that the measure of attention, vi'hich men may give to any 
case, they are called to reason on, must be greatly affected by the state of their 
affections. And the measure of attention they may bestov^', has a vital bearing 
on the judgment, they may form. If that be slight and superficial, the decisions 
of the mind must be rash^ — will probably be unjust. 

In the second place, it must not be forgotten, ih%t the stale of Lite affeciions has 
a strong hearing on the mutual projp or iions a7id relations, in ivhich things may be 
if resented to iha mind. — All rights, human and divine, benevolence embraces. To 
^hem all, she extends that measure of regard, which their relative importance 
demands. Thus she sees every tiling in its proper shape and position. In her 
eye, all things are arranged and kept in that happy order, which their mutual re- 
lations and proportions naturaHy indicate and require. — In classifying facts, to 
"reason on them, who can estimate the importance of such a state of mind! The 
joints of analog}-, which are the bases of general principles, readily meet the 
eye. Just classification almost ispontaneously takes place. Little ground 13 
left for deception or mistake. 

Selfishness throvv's all things into disorder. Rights in themselves or in their 
relative importance are no concern of hers. To her, her ov/u- interests, however 
petty, are every thinp-. Other things rise or fall in her esteem, as they seem to,. 
have a harsh or friendly bearing upon the idol, she adores. Nothing i3 present- 
ed to a mind. tliuE affected, in its own proper form or place. Every where v^ 



^36 

wild disorder.*— How will facts be arranged and classified by such a mind! 
Thrown into a confused heap, how can their mutual relations be discerend? — 
how their points of analogy — a matter all essential in fair reasoning — ^be percei- 
ved? Nothing but mere chance can prevent the grossest mistakes and the most 
flagrant errors. 

Soonafler the ascension of our Lord^ two of his apostles v/rought a miracle 
in his name. The miracle was of such a stamp, and performed in such circum- 
stances, as to forbid in the most skeptical mind a doubt of its reality. It wag 
fitted to make on many witnesses a deep impression in behalf of the Christian 
cause. The chief priests and their associates becam.e anxious to prevent its 
appropriate effect. They entered into grave deliberation on the subject. To 
what conclusion did they come, and on what principle, resolve to act? They had 
to dispose of a most interesting and important fact. That a "notable miracle" 
had been wrought by the apostles was a matter of public notariety; and they 
acknowledged that they "could not deny it." — Now, under what principle would 
benevolence have constrained them to bring this admitted fact? It belong- 
ed — clearly belonged to that class of facts, whose occurrence decisively evinced 
a super- human agency. These facts furnished ground for the general principle^ 
that the cause, in behalf of which, they ivere wrought, must be approved of Heaven. 
Under this principle, benevolence would have constrained the Jewish priests to 
have placed this admitted miracle. Thus, the controversy between them and 
the apostles would have come, at once, to a conclusion. The claims of Jesus to 
the Messiahship would have been admitted; and they themselves would have 
taken their place at his feet and devoted themselves to his service. — But what 
was the principle, they acted on? It was this: Nothing must be permitted to 
convict us of guilt and diminish our authority. Whatever has this tendency, 
we must not fail to prevent. Better even choke the voice of God than permit 

*Asa specimen of the manner, in which men under the control of selfishness reason about 
the rights of those, whom they are willing to see oppressed, take the following statements: 
'^If the state of fhing'S is wrong; {'in ''the form of society in our southern communities") it- 
should be set right, but only with duereg'ardtothe rights and interests oj' all parties '^ — Afrs* 
caa Repository, 1831, p. 186. 

What a weighty thought we have Siere! Wearetp set things right; how? Of the many 
ways, Mr. Gurley allows us to take but one. "Only with due regard to the rights of all!" Just 
«s if things could be "set right" by violating rights! The state of things must be set right, but 
only by being ^et right! Who has the face to dispute Mr. Gurley here? By such nonsense. 
Would he teach us, that /or a slave-holder to let go his hold of the bones and muscles, he hag 
stolen, without delay or hesitation, would be to submit to an infraction of his righls? 

Mr. Daiiforth, ii! liis fifth letter on colonization, represents the Saviour, as refusing'on grounds 
of expediency (in opposition to the "doctrine of abstract eternal right,") to overthrow, "even 
when he had the power, the system f>f slavery in the Roman empire." Why did not the Rev. 
fc,en<]('.miin proceed io zr^ue, thiit infidelity, and adultery, and murder n\]ght, on grounds of 
ftxpediency, be well endured, since, according to his doctrine, the Saviour, even when he h«»d 
th^i power, did not do arvay these crimes? This compound of blasphamy and nonsense, I sup- 
pcne the gentleruan 'vould call n hard arg-ument. 



5? 

him to conti-adict and condemn us! On this principle, they forbade the apostles 
uttering another syllable in praise ot their adored Master. 

Thus, the authority of the Bible, the voice of common sense, and the reference 
to the process, through which the mind passes in formmg a judgment, support 
the principle, that the decisions of the mind on subjects of practical interest, are 
greatly affected by the state of the affections. 

In review of the train of thought now presented, it may be observed, that the 
principle now illustrated, may greatly did us in fm-ming a correct estimation of 
the weight and ivorth of human opinion and authority. It is the opinion 
of the pope, that the common people ought not to have the Bible in 
their hands. They are not able he thinks, to understand it. They will be in- 
volved in error; end thus, endanger their salvation. He loves their souls too 
tenderly to let them read the sacred volume ! By the whole weight of his au- 
thority he forbids them to touch it ! But to what measure of respect is the 
authority of the pope entitled ? His judgment was manifestly formed under the 
controlling influence of the grossest selfishness. His throne is based on the 
ignorance of his subjects. Remove this ignorance, and the sceptre falls from his 
palsied hand. The free circulation and careful study of the Bible would be fatal 
to wliat he regards as his highest interests. A strong bias, then, bows him 
dov/n to the earth. With this bias on him, what is his opinion worth ? 

A devoted worldling takes up the Bible with the professed design of ascer- 
taining on what ground its claims to divine authority may rest. The first para- 
graph he reads, condemns in pointed terms his principles and habits. Such men 
as he knows himself to be, it denounces, as rebels against God and exposed to 
eternal plagues. It calls on him to abandon the objects, to which he has long 
been wedded, and pursue a course, which has his fixed aversion. His prejudices 
are wounded, his feelings hurt, his passions roused. A book, which handles hira 
80 roughly, he looks upon with heart-felt abhorrence ; and is determined to believe 
that it never came from God. However much he may read the Bible, and how- 
ever long examine its claims to divine authority, what after all, is his opinion 
good for. A wicked heart has most clearly warped his judgment. His decisions 
are the expression, not of sound conviction, but of bad affections. Now, let the 
state of his affections be changed; let him embrace with hearty good-will the 
rights and interests of all he has to do with; let him feel an inward readiness to 
sacrifice every object, which is adverse to the demands of eternal rectitude, and 
how different w'ill be his views of the divinity of the Bible ! He feels the force 
of evidence. No selfish bias warps him. He is open to conviction. The con- 
clusions to v/hich he arrives, will be naturally sound and just. When such a 
man speaks about the Bible, his authority has weight and power. 

A man sits in judgment on the character of his colored brethren. The slaves 
he declares ought not to be emancipated. They would, if set free, spread 



S3 

Wvoc all aroaud them. Tlisy niuiit be cradiied to the earth with the weighted 
chains; or they would set a thousand streams of hunian blood a flowing. Those 
who are now relieve.! froxii bondage, he declares, can never be good citizens. 
They arc incurably ignorant and vricked* They are a plague to the community 
they dwell in; and ought to be fiung across the ocean ! Just catechise this 
raviler of hi^ brethren, and you iliay at oiico ascertain the value of his judg- 
ment.* For he v/ill tell you, that he was born with a deep aversion to colored 
men; that he has ever felt and cheriGhod a strong prejudice against them; that 
his dislike of them can be subdued by no intkience, human or divine. Ic is a 
mmtiiutiQiial repugnancy ! Nay, no white man, v/hatever he may pretend, can 
help holding the negro in abhorrence and contempt. And yet this is the man, 
who undertakes to judge of negro ciiuracter I He lias the face, to decide on 
the claims of Africo-Araoricaiis to our esteem and confidence and love ! With 
an eSxontery, v>'h:ch knows not how to blasli. he undertakes to arrange plans to 
'elevate their character and promote their interests ! A wolf mi^»-ht as well be 
trusted to devise a plan to protect the i>heep ! No rnan is fit to judge of tho 
'tjharaGter of the brother whom he hatesr.j ills decision will be rank injustice. 
^I'lat can his authority in such a case justly avail '? Publish his opinions as he 
will, they are no better than expressions of avowed mahgnity and cherished 
prejudice. Before he can be qualified to form and publish an opinion about thd 
character and varied claims of his colored brethren, he must cordially and fully 
respect their rights and interests. He musi. rah-^c Ihcm Iron! the dyst totheir 

*The fol'iowiiig resohifion pa^ised at a coloriitation iuoKtij)e in rTorthauipton, i>Ia5s. not bn-j 

"'•ResolveHtthat inas'.iiuch as 0!jr NOLUhfu-n l;."f iJiiiii h.^l njo*t. hcaviij the f-vil of slavery, 
tsnd are most coaipstcrU io dcslse t'l c iiiea/:sc/''obi>iini?u: dcU/i franco IVoiu the biinleii, we view 
al! attempts to prpjiKiice the public uiiud oi CKcite tht pojiuiar te<.iin<jon tlie subject of silavc 
fy, aa usuvise, i-'!juii.jas, aad Hciaijtf'-J U) prrpetudie iue ev;!, which is pi-oposed tu be eradica- 
ted, ' ' ■ 

i'rof. Siliirann, on the contrary, tVilr.ki that l\\s\v "■\oc\\\ it-.tercsts and excilemesds hot'e blin- 
•^ed" ihsui; andithat'/•-o;?^r/^,d/2.o:;^/w.^th<^y^;iii:'cavctlyjud|^i. luth iiupurtl-htj." Af. Ke;>. 
^(br 1332, p. IGl. This houndi like the voste A coiu.uai. =^i\ii.. 



|A writer iu the Soiitbern Review , qnolcd in the rtppetidix to (he fuiictef nth repoil of iho 
ArEerkna Coiorjizaliun Society, deuouisnata. 'due si't'- es, -,. hLLvharous and ahominabic popula- 
Uan.^' S«e p. 27, 

" WhiU iierht, I deniand," said Mr,e;ii«ii.s. \i' a '.;itN^tin*r of thcCoKoiiizalion Society at \\ a«h" 
Siiarton, Jan."l331-, "VVhacriifift, f den..^tid/!K--v.. tht riiddren of Africa to a homestead m die 
ivhite nmn's coimtn-'^ Let the Atlantic lien .-.^ its hi-h and everlasting billov/ between then* 
country aad oui-i, 'Lei this fair inod, vvhii-h die while n)^u wofty/ his rdiivalry, which he hM 
adorned by th^ni-t> avvi cdf-ijanrea of i>oii*;)ftd life, he kr.pl saci-d f^i' his descendants urUdJ^ 
rdshed by ikefootprinis <->fhira mhj has enr hem. a s'nveV 

This aboruinableeifusioo of mulij^iiity and r,i Lie— thii^ ?p('.w;nff n.p ofo'all and bitterness, m?iy 
1)C se«n,aiuon^>; other rA-iruie:it matter, .cfiieluliy ]'! (served in (he fouricenth report of tho 
Am. Col. Son. p. "! . 'lu what li;:^ht mT.: t;>.- -/.•"-■ i nJh-'i;? b^ ?''p:50?iedre t') ^ard the chivalry 
of the w'htfp. ni.-in'? What may the-/ iir^dy vhi ,r,: ■-;' i;^- ri:-}J to n. l^oiiKStead in the red niaM's 
country? A society vvhirh c'olr! eruh;:-*; •5,o'i» c.:.\ .'■ s. '■.-); 3 c f ';ph-'.:-.u and apite. as lilacken th« 
f^svijesof the report, 'just referred io. wrj^n be la a .;;iu\ hc^opily \jZL\U::.'^r^ibe ',vork prproinotic^ 
'ihi lateresti af cciloi'ed Ar.>sr!C'.irial 



59 

ftppropriatG place— as tlie rational children of God, vedecrp.ed by fhc blood of His 
Son, and hastening forward to the retribuUons of eternity. He must pli5ce 
thernby the side -of the v/hite man; and allow them all tiie rights and cherish for 
them the affeclion which he challenges and receives, as his natural due. Then, 
when he undertakes to estimate their character, and adjust their claims, he may 
bold iris balance even. Then may hia .-'uthority have weight. Then may he ex- 
pect, that by them, by all, fdll credit vvill be given to his beiiGvolent professions. 
In estimating the value of any man's opinion on any point of practical concern 
my brethren, be sure to fix your eye tally and picfcingly upon his lieart. If j'ou 
find him selfish, hsep clear of tlie influence of ills authority. Mold -him at arm's 
end. You camiot trust him-. The main-spring of his soul is out of order. 
Every thing mus: go wrong. Piar^s of o^eml eilbrt, he may bring forward; their 
tendency may sesm benign; but. if you scrutinize their bearing and complexion 
severely, you will iind them rotten af tJie root. Whatever partial benefits, they 
may seem adapted to confer, you wi]l find them on the v.-hole pervaded bv a 
selfish spirit. You v.ill hardly tail to see good reasons for rejecting them. 

Forget not, moreover, that benevolence of heart can scarcely fail to insura 
so.undness of understanding. Such a heart will promptiy embrace and warmlv 
t^herish the rights of every hunmn being. Accidental circumstances will not 
6way and control the aiFection?, Prejudics, arising from color or external con- 
dition, will not be suflered to form a chain of caste. Every man, as man, will 
be esteemed and loved. When such is tJie state of tise affections, you may con- 
fide in the judgment. Plan? and exertions, proceeding from such a mind, may 
be expected to be benign in tlielr bearings and happy in their tendencies. 

2. To conduct the undcn- tan ding aright a constant regard must be had to the 
keari. While the whole field of their relations is spread out beneath their view, 
men must be urged cordially to respect and v>,-armly to cherish all the vario-i3 
rights, which belong to these relations. Every unholy prejudice must be rooted 
-up. Every wicked bias must be resisted and subdued. Till then, the most 
marked and prominent analogies will scarcely be perceived. The most power- 
f\il arguments will scarcely be felt. Appeals which would thrill and move an 
angel will scarcely be regarded. Hence, the high importance of addressing 
the aOectiox-i?, as well as the understanding, if we would lodge within them a 
conviction of the truth. 

In examining the J^ubjec^. waifdi may solicit our attc-i^ion, let us keep cur evG3 
open on the rnovrme:r.s of 0-- he?rt?. Let us not fv-z'^'- that the fDrce of argu - 
ment upon u? mr^v b^ br^^keu by bad aflectiorss. aiay we not be resistmg the 
most con vine-ing evidence beca-ise we i>.ar, that it mav ronduct us to an ungi-ate- 
fld conclusion? Perh^^ps we should '.ce \hc justness • of the claims of an injured 
^^rother ifwp did net cp-:,\~v or haie hirn. If w.- yield to pi^iidice. ^xp rau:;{ 



expect, that it will mislead us. Its ma2:netic influcace is as certain and power- 
ful as it is invisible. 

Remember, my brethren, that the strength of your christian character consists 
in the warmth and cordiality of your regard for those rights and interests which 
the law of God authoritatively vindicates. Just so far as you overlook the inter- 
ests and disregard the rights of the most abject and forlorn and despised member 
of the human family, so far ye are "yet in your sins." So far as he is concerned, 
your minds are deranged. He may plead with you with angel eloquence and 
truth, but his arguments will fail to penetrate the shield, which selfishness holds 
before your bosoms. Your prejudice will render you unreasonable. It will 
prove a cancer on your hearts. — If, in doing good, you would be like your Sa- 
viour, in your claims on the confidence and co-operation of your fellow-men, 
like him, stand up free from prejudice and selfishness. Maintain just and com- 
prehensive views cf the relations and interests of all, who are around you. 
Dare to cherish and vindicate the rights of all. Then, and not till then, will you 
be able to form and publish a judgment on points ot practical concern, which can 
he confided in, as equitable. 

And let impenitent men cease to invade the rights of others, and their objec- 
tions to the Bible will loose their hold upon their minds. They will not be long: 
in seeing the justness and feeling the force of the claims, which the Saviour hat 
upon their confidence, and love, and service . 3 heir selfishness i$ the source of their 
infidelity. Let them cease to adore themselves, and they will fall prostrate at 
the feet of the Messiah. 



SEllMON ly. 

I. John 4: 20. If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar: for 
the that loveth not his brother, whom he hath seen, how can he love God, whojai 
he hath not seen. 

The word brother in this passage, I take in the widest and most 4;omprehen^ 
eive sense, of which it is capable. It describes the relation, which the different 
members of the human family sustain to each other. In this sense of the word, 
a, man finds a brother in every human being. This interpretation of the term is 
:accordant jyith tke use of language in different coiuiexions of the Old Testament 
;and the New.^It is agreeable to the general tenor of the Gospel. Every body 
knows in what pointed terms the Saviour condemns that spuricT-s benevolence, 
which limits its regards to relatives and friends. He makes it essential to true 
benevolence, to respect the rights and cherish the interests of our enemies.— >■ 
The kindred word ''neighbor," moreover, according to the interpretation of the 
Saviour, given in the parable of the good Samaritan, signifies any fellow-man, 
thoug-h a stranger or an enemy, who needs our assistaiioe.-^It may well.be added, 
that so far as the exercise of benevolence is cciie^rned, one man sustains to us 
just the same relation as another. This relation presents the human race, as ob- 
jects of affectionate regard.~It deserves to be remarked, that, in the text, the 
apostle evidently employs the phrases, "hateth" and 'Hoveth not" in the same 
sense — as synonymous expressions. No man can justly say, though I do not 
love, I certainly hate not, ray brother. According to the apostle, he caimot fail 
to hate him, if he refuses to cherish for hjm benevolent affections. 

Upon the ground furnished by the text, I propose to illustrate and apply the 
following statement; The regard, ivhidi we manifest for man, is a fair test and 
jmt measure, of our regard for God, So 

I. The Bihle clearly teaches. 

In the first place, we have a class of texts, in which professed piety towards 
God is pronounced base and spurious on the ground that it is not united with henevo- 
lencefor men. — In the fiftieth Psalm, Jehovah is presented to our view, in the sol- 
emn act of subjecting his people to judicial examination. To the external rites 
of religious worship, they seem to have been sufficiently attentive. Their "sa- 
crifices and burnt offerings were continually before" Him. They were, moreo- 
yer, forward to "declare the divine statutes" and t9 "take the covenant of Jeho- 

F 



4iL 



vail in their mdath.'' Thfere was no want of external demonstrations of a pioud 
reo-ard for Jehovah. Sacrifices they could offer — the law, they could interpret 
and applaud. And yet Jehovah spurned their sacrifices and abhorred their pro* 
fessions. Why? Secause, after all the flatteries, which they lavished on the 
Highest, they dared in their intercourse with their fellow^men "to cast his 
words behind them." "When they saw a thief, then they consented with him^ 
and had been partakers with adulterers. They sat and spoke against their bro- 
ther* they slandered their own mother's son." With all their religious zea)^ 
they invaded the rights and trampled on the interests of their fellow-men. This 
spoiled their piety. They made a great show of love to God; but thtir contempt 
for men' evinced, that their hearts were putrid. Their hypocrisy exposed thera 
to thewrath of God. 

Isaiah was required with trumpet-tongue to charge home upon Ihe Hebrews 
their flaorant iniquities. Iniquitiesl What sort of people were they, upon 
whose naked hearts, the prophet was to pour scorching rebukes? Why, a ipeo- 
pl© apparently distinguished for their goodness — active, devoted, zealous in the 
cause of God. "Yet they seek me daily, arid delight to know my ways, as a na* 
tion that did righteousness, and forsook not the ordinances of God: they ask of 
me the ordinances of justice; they take delight in approaching to God." I'hey 
were so pious, that they wondered that God did not favorably notice them and 
richly reward them. Instead of this, they complained, that he turned away, in 
contempt, from their religious services. "Wherefore have we fasted, say they^ 
and thou seest not?" To this impudent inquiry, an answer was returned from 
on high, which could not have failed to have made their hearts, imbedded in fat 
though they were, ache and bleed. "Behold, in the day of your fast, you find 
pleasure, and exact all your labors. Is it such a fast that I have chosen? a day 
for a man to afflict his soul? is it to bow down his head like a bulrush, and to 
spread sackcloth and ashes under him? wilt thou call this a fast, and an accepta- 
ble day to the Lord?" Could they be so stupid, as to think that the omniscient 
and holy God could be pleased with mere sniveling, and filth, and rags, assumed 
to divfii't his eye from their wicked designs and doings? Their gross mistake, 
he proceeded to expose and correct. "Is not this the fast that I have chosen, to 
loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppres- 
sed go free, and that you break every yoke? Is it not to deal thy bread to the 
huncrry, and that thou bring the poor, that are cast out, to thy house? when thou 
seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine 
own flesh?" — With all their professed delight in God, they hated and oppressed 
their fellow-men. With all their whimpering, they would not shed a tear over 
the multiplied and crushing wrongs, to which their own brethren were subject. 
Nay, while with one hand, they, with seeming reverence, opened the sacred vol- 
ume, with the other; they riveted a yoke upon their brother's neck! Thus, they 



clearly showed,, that their piety was sheer pretence— "a whited sepulchre, full o£ 
dead men's bones^" 

Our LordoDce directed the attention of his numerous hearers to a class of reli- 
gionists among them, whose high pretensions and ardent zeal, had given them an 
elevated reputation. They willingly took as their proper due, the most honora- 
ble places, both at the feasts and in the synagogues. They were remarkable,, 
moreover,, for their devotions — the long prayers they offered. But with all their 
professions, and with their high reputation for distinguished sanctity, they 
were hastening to a hell^, peculiarly dreadful! Hastening to Hell! What, from 
the chief seats in the synagogues! What, with the language of prayer upon 
their lips! Yes, hastening to Hell, wi:th the language of prayer upon their lips? 
and from the highest seats in the synagogues. For what? Because, with all 
their piety, they trampled on the rights of the poor and the helpless. Wretch- 
es, that they were, they "devoured widows' houses, and for a pretence made long 
prayers," and were doomed to "receive greater damnationJ' — The cases, just 
given, with many others, belonging to the same class, clearly show, that in the 
eye of God, that ^^iety, which overlooks the rights and disregards the interests of 
any portion of tie human family, however abject and despised, is spurious and 
worthless. Thus, on the one hand,, the want of benevolence for men evinces 
according to tJie Bible the absence of piety towards God. On the other, m the- 
second place, a class of texts may be adduced, ivhick go to show that a henevolent re- 
gar d for the human family implies the love of God — a filial and heartfelt affection 
for their common Father. A single passage may be sufficient for my present pur- 
pose. It contains the description, v/hich our Lord has given, of the scenes of the 
final judgment: and of the principles on which the retributions of eternity will, 
be awarded. "When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy 
angels, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: and before him shall be/ 
gathered all nationS;, and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepheri 
divideth his sheep from the goats: and he shall set the sheep on his right h^d, 
but the goats on the left. Then shall the King say unto them on his right ^and. 
Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you f^-^^^ ^he 
foundation of the world: for I was an hungered, and y© gave me m'^t: I was 
thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me v'- naked, and 
ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, a^^ ye came unto 
me. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, wM^ saw we thee an 
hungered, and fed theel or thirsty, and gave thee drink? yien saw we thee a 
stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee? '^hen saw we thee sick, 
or in prison, and came unto thee? And the King sha^^' answer, and say unto 
them. Verily, I say unto you, that inasmuch as y or have done it unto one of the 
least of these my brethren, you have done i^ wjfojrte."— Then shall he say unto them 
on the left hand. Depart from me, ye cursed, inta everlasting fire, prepared for 



44 

tlie devil and his angele: for I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat; f 
ivas thirsty, and ye gave me no drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me not in:" 
naked, and ye clothed me not: sick, and in prison, and he visited me not. Then 
shall they also answer him, saying. Lord, when saw we thee an hungered, or 
athirst, of a gtrariger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee"? 
Then shall he aiiswer them, saying. Verily, I say unto you, inasmuch as ye did 
it not to one of the least ofihese, ye did it not to me. And these shall gd away into 
Everlasting- punishment: but the righteous into life eternal." 

Whatever figurative language this passage may present, it is full of weighty 
truth. It clearly teaches, that a benevolent regard for those whom th6 Saviour 
kindly stylfes his brethren, evincfes a cordial attachment to him, which he will 
honorably acknowledge and gloriously reward. So far then, as tlie hreihren of 
the Saviour are Concerned, the passage lends its full authority to the doctrine, 
•under examination. But why does oiir Lord, here specify his brethren, as the 
Objects of affectionate regard? From the use of this term, may we infer, that 
Christians only are referred to as a test, by which our regard to Jesus Christ is 
tried and developed? Such an inference would be contrary t^ the drift and spii- 
it of the gospel. By the whole weight of his authority, the Sayiour binds tis to 
embrace the world—friends and enemies — in our benevolent affections and exer- 
tions. And if by brethren, in the passage, on which we are dwelling, Christians 
are intended, ikey are, dovUless, designated to represent those olpects of affectionate 
concern, which were likely to he overlooked or trodden down. This seems to be in- 
dicated by the description, which t^e Saviour gives them. They were pinched 
with hunger; parched with thirst; houseless, naked, sick, imprisoned; oppressed 
by want — crushed with woe. In this description are involved their claims to be- 
nevolent sympatiiy and kind assistance. Their necessities, as wretched mm, plead 
for them; and as wreltched men, they were made to repregent all the objects 
which beiievolence naturally embraces. — It is remarkable that our Lord seems 
to lay especial stress on the most abject and despised, as the test by which oUr 
professed benevolence should be tried and judged of. "The least of his brethren' 
the mo,t down-trodden, helpless, hopeless creatures, were specially worthj^, in this 
matter, >o be his representatives. Those who ventured on whatever pretext to 
to despise >r oppress them, threw contempt upon their final Judge. Had they 
seen hini in t>e same guise, they would have treated him no better! Those, 
who raised then.up from the dust, wiped away their tears, and cherished and 
helped them on in \heir rugged way, did honor to their Lord. They would have 
borne his cross, had .hey seen him fainting beneath the burden! 

Let us not be deceived, Yv'o are hastening to the judgment-seat of Christ. If 
we dare despise the meanti^^t of our species, then shall we be condemned, as de- 
spisers of our Judge. St/Iec\ing "the least of his brethren'^ as a test of the regard 
for himselfj which men hv.fnf ^.tn-e cliprished. me thinks I hear him say t« some 



4T> 

who now hope for acceptancein his presence; I was a colored man, and you main- 
tained a cruel prejudice against me;* enslaved, and you apologized for my op- 
pressor; torn with whips, and you refused to pity me;f deprived of the bread of 
life, and you alleged, that expediency required me to submit to starvation; $ and 
at length, forced from my native country to a foreign shore, and you assisted in 
the enterprize.§ 



*"No station of honor or authority is accessibl6. These digabllities are the result of coni- 
pli^xion, and, till the Ethioipan can change his skin, they admit of no remedy. Who Would 
employ a black to minister at the bed of sickness? Who would entrust to him the mainten- 
ance of his rights and the protection of his interests in a court of iustice? or what conj^rega- 
tion would consent to receive him as a herald of Salvation, whose lips should announce to them 
the will of Heaven, and whose hand should break to them the bread of life? Whose feelings 
would not revolt, not only at seeing an individual of this class seated in the charr of state, 
presiding in our courts ot justice, or occupying the hall of legislation, but even at seeing him 
elevated to the lowest and most trivial office in the community? In all these respects, the 
blacks if not by the pro\isions of our constitution and laws, at least b\ public sentinieftt and 
feeling, and by sentiment and feeling too, which ii .round less and reprt hensible admit of no 
correction, area proscribed and hopeless rare, hxn not only are none of the fields of generous 
enterprize and honorable ambition open to tii;^m, tiiey are made to see and feel their debase- 
ment in all the every day intercourse of life. Ko matter what their characters ihay be, how- 
fever amiable and excellent their spirit, and however blameless and escmplary their candQ<bt, 
they are treated as an inferior and despised portion of ihe species. ISo one unless himself 
^unk so low as to be an outcast from those of his own color ever associates wrth {hem on ternis 
ofequalityi" See a sermon delivered before the Veiu:ont Colonization Society,- 1826^ by 
Prof. Hougn^ of Middlebury r >'lege, p. 9. 

t7 do not mean to speak bf slavery as a sy?fem cfcr-dty and suffering. -^The: condition of 
the slaves generally is such as the friends of Humanity have no reason to complain ofy — t>iso- 
i^ay's 4th July, 1831, oratibti.delivertd at JN^ew ark, N. J. quoted from Mr. Garrison's thoughts 
on colonization; — a work worthy tho eye and the heart of every American citizen. 

|An effort for the benefit of the b'laciks, in which all parts of the Country can unife, of course 
must not have the abolition of slavery for its immediate object. JNor may it aim directly at the 
instruction of the great body of the blacks. In either case, the prejudices and terrors of the 
slave-holding states would be excited i(i a moment; and with reason too, for it is a well es- 
tablished point, that the public safety forbids either the emancipation or the general instruction 
of the ilaves See Chtistian Spectator, 1828, p. 644.— Found also in the appendix of the 7th 
annual report of the Am. Col. Soc. p. 94. 

^A strong light seems to be shed upon the the willirTghfess of our free blacks to emigrate by 
the discussion on Mr. Brodnax's resolution in the legislature Virginia. 

Mr. Brodnax, among other statemtnts, holds the following language; "I have already ex- 
fjressed it as my opinion, that few, very few, will voluntarily consent to emigrate, if no'com- 
pulsory vieasure be adopted. With it— many, in anticipation of its sure and certain arrival^ 
will, in the mean time, go away— they would be sensible that the time would come when they 
■would be forced tole-ve the state. Without— you will still, no doubt, have applicants for 
removal equal to your means. Yes, sir, people who will not only consent, but beg you to ile- 
port them. But what sort of consent!— a consent extorted by a series ofoppresiion calculated 
to render their situation among us insupportable. Many of those who have already been sent 
off, were sent with thnr avoived consent, hut under the influence of a more decided compulsion 
than any which this bill holds out, I will not express in its full extent, the idea 1 enteitain 
of what has been done, or what enormities wiil be perpetrated to induce this class of person* 
to leave the state. Who does not know that when a free negro, by crime or otherwise, has 
fendered himself obnoxious to a neighborhood, how easy it is for a party to visit him one 
night, take him from his bed and family, and apply la him the genllt admonition cf a severe 



46 

II. An examination of the grounds, on which it rests, 7mist make the soundness of 
the 'principle, maintained in this discourse, fully apparent. — Love to God and love 
to man are made up of the same elements;-— produce, essentially, the same state 
of mind. It consists in a cordial regard for the rights of the one and the other.. 
These rights are defined in]the same law, defended by the same authority, vindica- 
ted by the same sanctions. — But our relations to man involve- peculiar advanta- 
ges for clearly and certainly ascertaining the state of oi^r aifections. The mind, 
in the first place, ads upon human rights and interests, unawed;—free from embar^ 
rassing constraints A father makes his children acquainted with an arrangement 
of his, which bears directly and powerfully upon their happiness, by the lips of 
one of their own number. Himself is at a distance. His presence is not felt. 
His eye, beaming with authority, does not awe and constrain. Now, is it not 
plain and certain, that the hearts of the children must be more clearly and fully 
brought out to the light, than if the parent, in his own person, had enjoined Ms 
a-rrangement"? — Or, to change the illustration, who does not know, that children, 
much more readily betray their selfishness — their reckless disregard of right, in 
their intercourse with each other, than in their intercourse with their parents? 
In the former case, their hearts leap out to view, imrestrained, in the.r proper- 
form and complexion. Here, the state of their affections is fully re-vealed — clear- 
ly displayed. They promptly invade each other's rights* They rudely break 
in on each other's joys. They unfeelingly trample on each other's interests.. 
They often assume the guise and use the language of stern, relentless tyranny.- 



flagellation, to induce Mm to consent ta go mimy. In a few laights the close can be repeated,,, 
perhaps increased, until, in the language of the Physicians, quantum sujf'. has been adminis- 
tered to produce the desired operation; and the. fellow then l)ecome3 'perfectly willing to. 
move awaj. I have certainly heard, if incorrectly, the gentleman from Southampton will put 
nie i'ight,that of the large cargo of emigrants lately transported from that county to Liberia, 
all of whom professed to he willing /ago, were rendered so by some such seveie ministration 
as I have described- A Lynch club— a committee of vigilance — could easily exercise a kind 
of inquisitorial surveillance over any neighborhood, and convert any desired number, I have 
no doubt, at any time, into a willingness to be removed. But who really ■prefers such means, 
as these to the course proposed in this billl And one or the other is inevitable. For no mat- 
ter how you change this bill— sooner or later the free negroes will he forced to leave the 
state, indeed, sir, all of us look to force of some kind or other, direct or indirect, moral or- 
physical, legal or illegal. Many who are opposed, to any compulsory feature in the bill, de- 
sire to introduce such severe regulations in our police laws— such as inability to hold property 
— obtain en)ploynient — rent resiflfnces, &;c. as to render it impossible for them to remain a- 
jnong us. Is not this force?" Rev, S. Jocelyn's exoetlent letter in the Genius of Temper- 
auce, April 1832. What need of comment heie? 

Tt is remarkable that the emancipations, as they are called, which now take place among- 
the slave-holders, are almost exclusively on the condition of emigration. Matthew Carey in 
his letters to Mercer says (p. 7.) that "manumissions without deportation appear to be almost 
wholly at an end." What mockery, to call such manumissions emancipation! They ought 
to' have a very different name. The choice, now given to the wretched slave, in the few cases 
whert any thing is professedly attempted for his benefit, lies between hopeless servitude and 
exile! That in any case he should choose the latter shows how galling must be the chains of 
the forme-! Poor outcast! He is too bad to stay, as Mr. Cusli,-5 calls it, "in the white niaK's 
country," and so inu-jt go as a missionavy, to convert Africa! 



47 

In the latter case, their hearts are held in check. The natural tide of alTection 
is turned back by parental authority. A full developement of themselves, they 
do not — dare not make. 

Men naturally think of God with reverence and awe. They tremble at the 
thought of invading — directly invading His rights. Under His authority, they 
feel themselves checked, embarrassed, restrained. They dare not bare their 
bosoms to His thunder. They are accustomed, therefore, to speak of Him with 
respect— to claim to be His friends; to profess to rejoice in the stability of His 
throne and the permanency of His blessedness. It is hard for them to ascertain 
the nature of this profession. Their hearts shrink away, abashed, from the face 
of eternal Majesty; and can with great difficulty be drawn forth from the lurk- 
ing places, where they lie 4:oncealed. But, place the rights and interests on 
which the heart may act in different chxumstances. Let them beloag to a 
creature who has never seen the face of a friend— whom none care to know or 
protect. His very form and complexion have always exposed him to contempt 
and ridicule. He has always been subject to oppressive servitude ; has been 
bought and sold; fed, beaten, worked like a beast. The law knows him, only 
to afflict him with peculiar pains and penalties. All men around hnn have com- 
?bined their strength, to degrade and crush him. He may struggle, weep, and 
^leed; but compassion and assistance, he has long ceased to expect. Thousands, 
you may find, who profess to regard the authority of God with reverence and 
love, who do not hesitate to trample on this man's rights. Here, the genuine 
tendencies of their liearts are betrayed. Here, their selfishness breaks forth, 
without check or concealment. They see no danger in trampling on the wretch, 
®,11 helpless, hopeless, crushed as he is. He, therefore, is a mirror, faithful and 
true, from which their naked hearts are reflected. Here, you have an exposition, 
fair and just, of the state of their affections. And as they treat him, so most 
certainly would they treat Jehovah, if they dared. Let Him lay aside His 
thunder, and place Himself within their reach, and they wdil bind Him with 
chains, and scourge Him with whips, and load Him with burdens, fit only for the 
shoulders of an ass I 

In the next place, it may be remarked, that in our relations to afelloiv-man, ioe 
are able to derive assistancefrom our senses in ascertaining the state of our affec- 
tions. So far as they are free from an indefinite yet dreadful apprehension of 
His power, it is too common, I fear, for men to regard God, merely as a bundle of 
lifeless attributes— placed an infinite distance beyond them ; whose face they 
never see, whose voice they never hear, whose hand they never feel. With a 
vague, unimpressive apprehension of Jehovah, they find it hard to determine 
what place, if any. He may have in their affections. They can hardly bring Him 
home to their conceptions, so as to excite an interest in their minds or awaken 
feeling in their hear»ts. He is too far of^ and too effuctually concealed, to be to 



4a 

tliem an object ol lively regard. When pressed, therefore, with the iuquir)^; do 
you love God? the vacant stare which they assume, indicates too clearly to 
admit mistake, that they cannot tell whether they love God or not. On the whole, 
they hope they do. They ought to love Him, Now, bring pod near to them 
in the person of Jesus Christ. They hear his voice. They see his movements. 
His attributes are alive before them. They mark His principles, His spini, His 
designs. They listen to the claims He urges on them.— His commands and pro- 
hibitions. Now, at length, their spirit is aroused. God no longer appears re^ 
mote, in the distance beyond them ; He is near at hand. He condemns their 
wicked doings. He commands tliem to repent. He warns them of impending 
danger. The state of their affections is no longer doubtful.-r-Our fellow-men 
are \isible. Their rights lie in the same field as ours. With ours, their interests 
are intertwined. Our sympathies, called forth b}'- the same occasions, mingle in 
the same current. Our hearts and theirs, come, often in close contact. Direct 
interference and harsh collision often mark our intercourse. Our hearts, then, 
can hardly fail to come out to view. Through the medium of our senses we may 
see in what light we regard the rights and interests, which the divine law asserts 
aud protects. ^'If we love not our brother, when; we have seen, how can we 
love God, whom we have not seenl" 

And then, thirdly, our relations to our fellow-men involve claims vpon us, pecu- 
liarly adapted to try and expose the state of our affections. God is independently 
aud immutably blessed. The most active and enterprising malice cannot hops 
to reach and shake His throne. Its foundations are eternal rock; reposing ia 
undisturbed security amidst the crash of falling worlds! What mortal man cau 
hope to diminish the joys of his great heart ? It may cost us little to profess 
to love and honor Him. Friendship with Him can hardly expose us to derision 
and contempt. No necessities of His can ever make high anji exhausting de- 
mands upon our resources and our efforts, What is here to try and expose the 
heart? 

But our relations to our fellow-men, place us in very different circumstances. 
We may see them, oppressed with want, broken by persecution, branded with 
infamy. A general prejudice may have c^st them out from the kind regards of 
their fellow-men: may have encouraged and defended all sorts of aggressions on 
their rights and interests. They may have been thrust down to a level with 
brute beasts ; to be wantonly insulted and cruelly abused with impunity^ 
Now, what will you do for these miserable men? Will you embrace them, as your 
brethren? Will you study their character and condition? Will you open your 
eyes upon their sufferings, their \va-v{<, their prospects? Will you stand up in their 
defence? Will you frown upon their merciless oppressors? Will you exert 
yourselves, immediately, vigo. .uslf. untiringly, to raise them to their proper 
place, by the side of those vl.;'> nu.v seek to treac diem down? Say, will you 



4d 

"do tli'JLS, ar c'a^ hazard oruaving your reputatioa as-jaiitd, your iiitcresU iavateJs 
Your purest motives, your bcbt intentions, your most clisinteresjted endeavors 
your moot benevolent exertions will be heiu ap to general scorn and execratioii? 
You will be regarded as hair-brained enthusiasts, reckless auveaturors, madiv 
expending your g^|ibgtj^Hn^ <juixotic enterprise ! Your hold on public con5- 
dence may be endang^nJlHpv^ry where, you may ba exposed to suspicion and 
'distrust, to private enmity and to public tumidts;*nay, a price may be act upon 
your headi:! Now look upon your bleeding brothers; and say, dare } ou pity 
them?! Dare you meet contenipt and malignity,, in a thousand 'tonne and in a 

*^ Tiie spilelul spirit, which gave birth to the njeasureSj as mario;nant as {lipy were iuifrr- 
tent, adopted at dilierent points of the slt4ve-holdng' states, to desiroj fP'iilicm'Llcyd Garri- 
son, r.fceds ao description, [tisju^tsuch a spirit, aa slavt^-hclding naiui-allv g^enreatos. Tiiosf , 
T%-bo can trample, remorselessly and reoklesslv, ij[)Oii the. right- ot a colored Aniericao, canis^t 
be exoected to cherish any profound arid cordial regard lor the welfare of h\a while ibllow- 

citJzeus. Of this (he experience of IVorchSter c^ Buikr, jmnies dear to every good heart; 

n»en,a5 inag'nanimoas and public-spirited ;\g their pe2>ecu<-ors nere nsean and aeifish — is an:- 
ple and appropriate illustfiition. — Had the euenj'es of Mr. Gtirrieon known the just n^easun? 
of their resources, tney would have 'M^.t hjui aionft." He is too high, to be reacntd by iheij'^ 
malice, active and mighty as it is. He i.s iuiprtssiotj his nuble imajje on niultipled aiinds. He 
only needs to be knuvfn.to secure the admiration, confidence, love; warm eccourag-en.ent ai»d 
cuuatant support of every genuine jriiiianiijropist. Kis '■' Thoughts'" and his paper (2 Ae Lib- 
tratov) are worthy of the eye and the heart of every Anoeri\i.n. Long ujay he ii\e and guc- 
cessfaily may he labor, beiieath the the protectioii ai»u •liiik* of the conaiiot. Kaihf.r of &.1 
men! 

J But what good will it do? A reverend speaker, pieadinc: the canse of the ColonizsfisJt 
Society, assures me, that if we "allovi' our colored population to venmin auioj g- v.%, thev wili 
remain the same degraded, lincnlighiened, unprinoipled and aiandoned race, tiiat tijey are bow 
found, equally worthless and noxious in thenisehes and cqiialiy a ni!;st-:i!''e to the 'jubllc'" 
Prof. Houg-h's sermon before the Vt. CohSoc, "published by recji't^t of tlie So«;ifetv.'" v,. iO". 
This is much «ucIj encouragement, as the frienJi of the IndicuiS were often cheereJ •-';;:h. i rVv^- 
years as;-o. Do what you will, it was tlippantlv. contjdentiv, uub!iish'i»i<j!v assert-^ : — . j ivhsS 
you will, an Indian will be an Lidian utiil! Yen uiKV as so.Jn tame a pa.tridji^e, as ^ure iimi of 
'iih peculiar vice.?, and raise him to the d!gnity,and joy, and hi-h hopes cf the Ctiriiiiao life !-— 
To -uch doctrine, fit only for the llp« of scotnng iuudclity, it niaV one day aprjear, that ths ru> 
jn of that noble race of men is chieily o*ving. 

Now hear what another orator, who in 1332, urg-ed liie clainjs of in" C^Iun. Society, sd-- 
nits respecting the results ot christian effort in behalt'ot the free colored An;ericans, who ara 
"allowed to reinaia" in New Haven, Conn. "We need not go iar from home, to ?ee ths pleas- 
inn: effects of the benevolent and disinterested exertions of an eminent friend of A fricans, aid- 
ed by othersof a kindred spirit. If great niunbers of our local colored fres people stiil neg- 
lect the admonitions of their pastor, it is certain, that raany regard ikerti; and he' has had the 
satisfaction of seeing c>Ot ajtvj, given him as rewards of his ministry and a« crowns ci his re- 
joicing. It in delightf'jl to a benevolent mind, to see so many of our colored people living- ia 
iieat and,-';.nif.»rtable dwellinr'^. furni-hed in decent tn^'te and iu sufficient fulness, thus indica- 
ting- i-o^rtefy, mfiusiry and self -respect; to see also their children, in clean attire, hastening, 
cfa Sabbath nioruiug, to the Sunday school; and on oth;?r da vs, with cheerful intelligent fjiCtsd 
feek'ing the conjmo.i school." Prof. Sdtinitns address; Afri. Repos. 1S32, p. 184. This 
fweet.exhiliratins:, precious paragraph ought to be iudelibly written on every American heart. 
Look at the cise. 

la J's'ev} }Ia-:en, where mortifying, alEiclive, shocking indications of cherished malignity to 
•p.-ards colored Americans have been given, was the experiment made, the refculls of which are 
so "delightful to a benevolent nii*Ki," 

This pyperiment ^^i, made, not by thsa^ent of a Socifay. hi|h in the favor of a dozen le- 
gisl-dture.*;— cher;r«d in hi? labotsby the prompt assi^t.-.nce.cordial support, and loud applams 
ci the intelligent and pious, jeacra'lv, '-in thg land;" — bat b^ "the Re? . S . !^'. Jocelyn. the'eaj- 

G 



thousand places, in order to vindicate tl.eir rigLU and promote their interests? 
Ah! I see the qiiiestion makes you etsgger and turn pale! But slay, where are 
vnu going7-^"to pass hy on the other side!"' It is even so! But pause a mo- 
ment. Before you quite lose sight of your prostrate brethren, v^eltering un- 
pitied in their blood, hear the voice of their insulted -^I^I^^-^flRo has an ear for 
their groans, and a "bottle for their tears;"' and who ^a^psswe day, terribly avenge 
their wrongs, upon their relentless persecutors. ''He thatloveth not his brother 
whom he hath seen^ how can he love God whom he hath not seen?-' He who 
"passes by" his brother, crushed with tlie burdens Vvhich "wicked hands" have 
laid upon him, would have passed by the Saviour bleeding upon the cross! 

The train of thought now presented, sheds a char light upon th^ nature of trxie 
religion* Whatever is adapted to test the sincerity of our professed lo\e to 
God, cannot but correct and enlarge our views of christian character. Accord- 
ing to this test, true religion brings those who live under its hallowed influence, 
to respect aZHhe rights, and promote all the interests, which the law of God 
maintains* How full of life and substance, then, must true religion be! How 
unlike that fitful excitement, which often usurps its name and claims its honors! 
What do those men mean, who think of religion, as a fever, which now makes 
the blood boil, and now leaves the whole frame covered with hoar frost ? 'Re- 
ligion does not consist merely in tlie enjoyment which flows from high hopes 
and delightful anticipations. If, consists in cordially emhracing the rights and 
interests of all, ivheikcr above ar around vs, to whoin as moral agents, tve arc 
related. It is as pei'-xianent in its influence, as those relations are immutable in 
iheir character. It is continually surrounded by objects adapted to keep it in 
exercise. As long as a single brother can be found, who needs sympathy and 
aid; or who can challenge confidence and love, its activity must be maintained. 
Its whole tendency, moreover, is directly and eminently useful. The true chris- 
tian will not rest satisfied with having obtained for himself an assured hope of 
everlasting life. He feels the bond of brotherhood which unites him to the hu- 
man family. All men are dear to him^ He v/elcomes to his inmost soul the 
obligation which binds him freely to expend his powers and resources, to promote 
the interests of all. He cannot fail to be a rich blessing to the world, which 
he aflectionately holds in his ample embrace- 

vntay^y minister o( the Afv'iCTLn cLurcb" hi New Haven . Tlie blrsslng of the Father, Son, 
and Holv Ghost, theCod of Providence & Grace; the Comiuon Father, Saviour, Sanrtifier of 
white and ccAored men, sustain, and guide; r fresh and animate; succeed and reward tliee^ 
dearly beloved and highly honored brother'. 

What if the pi-ofes>ed di.*cip!f;s of the S;iviour in N<;w Haven had generally sympathized in 
iiie feeling s and vnited in the tabors, of Mr. Jcrelyn! What results ninsthave filled Heaven 
and earth wi'h exuUation! Say, vouos:; iiieri, who pant to be useful in the world ; say, can 
you look upon the enterprize, in which such men as Mr. Jocclyn are exhanstinisj their powers 
and re'!ourcrR, without devotinjr "onrj f.nd soul" to the same pnrrcd desip^n? What n harvest 
invites vour labor*. \Jp^. T'l/toi-J, in the^iirkle' 'J he Lord of (he harvest calls you; Fit;d will 
h ip lily h'l'i -J,?..!, A.) i r'l K-'.i'i-ly reward you I 



O, when will professed christians learn to eL-timate the sincerity of their love 
to God by the warmth and expansiveness of their benevolence for men! Then 
will ihe church assume a character worthy of her relations, and privilege?, and 
prospects. Thefl will .she bo the light of the world; the desire, the hope, the 
[j'lory of all natifisi Then shall she scatter benefits over the face of all ths 
• earth; and all men rise up and call her blessed ! 

2. It is monstrous ausvrdiii/, raiik impiety, and gj-oss hypocrisy, to pretend to 
giorify God, hy invading the rights and trampling on the inttrests c//?ie?i.'— What 
does that man mean, who fastens on his brother the hand of persecution. You 
hear his professions. His regard for the honour of God. is so profound and 
lively, that he feels itrpelled to violate the dearest rights and sacrifice the highest 
interests of those who dare to differ from him in their views of the divine charac- 
ter and government! You must not think, that he is arrogant and cruel. He 
may shed blood. He may tear reputation. He may force his helpless victims 
to drink "the cup of trembling." But you must not blam.e him! He verily 
thinks that he is offering to Heaven an acceptable sacrifice. He claims for his 
zeal, the approbation of God and the applause of men. Just as if God would 
be delighted to see. His altar burdened with human sacrifices! Just as if he 
could smile upon the wretch, who should dare to present Him the violated rights 
and lacerated character of his own brethren! What insufferable mockery of 
eternal Majesty is this! What! to think of pleasing God, by violating rio-hts, 
which He has made sacred! by trampling on interests which He is intent on 
defending and promoting ! Vrhere else shall vre look for absurdity, impiety, hy- 
pocrisy like this! Tlie same attitude is taken and m.aintained by those who 
withhold from any fellow man his rights on the plea of preventing evil conse- 
quences. That he has rights, dear to him as life, they cannot dispute. It is to 
be sure, a point on which they do not love to dwell. They think it better to 
leave the subject, untouched, unagitated. Their desire is to have the w^hole 
matter of right and wrong left in the dark— covered with rubbish. But if they 
are constrained to speak, they open their lips in the defence, of oppression. It 
will not do, they aver, to restore him his rights, immediately and fully. His op- 
pressors might thus be injured. The whole frame-work of civil society, founded 
on wrong-doing, might be crushed. The arrangements of God's providential 
government might be tlirown into wild disorder and suffer irreparable iniurr. 
from a pious regard to the interests of God's government, they are decidedly 
orposcd to restoring those rights, which the divine law vindicates! Just as if 
the omniscient God was not aware of all the consequences, which in any pos- 
sible combination of circumstances, might follow a prompt acknowledgement, 
and. cordial and effectual defence of all the rights, which his holy law defines! 
Just as if he needed to take counsel of human sagacity and derive light from 
human experience. h\st as if he could not support his own throne, "without 



b2, 

'tlie petty artifices of human handt?. Just as if, uiiusr His governriient, a case 
eould possibly occur, in which it would not he safe, immediately to cease from 
evil doing. Just as if the arrangements of His providence clashed with the 
requisitions of His Lav/. And men were at liherty— nay, ^y&fg obliged to talto 
side with His Providence in opposition to His Lme.; This is the attitude, which 
Wrong doers dare to take, when they refuse to restore, ia\"£Led, violated rii^hts, 
on the plea of -preventing evil consequenceSo Can iixusurdily more monstrous, 
ranker impiety, grosser hypocrisy be conceived of. 

B. The train of ihovghi now oj'ered, ivith the lessons of r>isiruction, it ccnfafhs, 
lei vs serimtsly' apply to ourselves It is not for me, my brethren, to control the 
parties, wWh you may have formed, or to dictate the pohtics, to which you shall 
bepartial. With your parties -or your pohtics, as such, I have notluhg to do in 
this discourse. But when the one or the other leads you to occupy grc»und, 
which your Lord and mine forbids you to hold, then as a watchman, whose office 
requires him to care for your safety, it is my duty to warn you of impending dan- 
ger. Eeware then, I beseech you! Mark with open eye the bearing of the prin- 
ciples which you may be tempted to adopt — the tendency of the spirit, which 
you are in danger of cherishing. Beware! Ere you think x-f danger, your life- 
blood may be poisoned at the fountain. Bev/are! A serpent may even now ba 
coiling round your hearts. Yoti are in danger of cherishing a prejudice, deadly 
to your ovv'n peace and hostile to the dearest interests of a large mass of op- 
pressed humanity. Be assured you cannot do so with innocence cr impunity. 
Whether "you will hear or whether you will forbear" it is mine to warn you, 
that you cannot do so without staining your character- and forfeiting the smilca 
cff Heaven. Whatever may be your professed regard for God, forget not that 
he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, cannot lovs God -Ahem ha 
hath not men-. 



